{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red20\green64\blue117;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c7843\c25098\c45882;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12660\viewh14340\viewkind0
\pard\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf2 About the \'93Includes\'94 folder
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
The Includes folder contains items that extend the \{\'85\} pop-up menu. You can fill this folder with plain and rich text documents (extensions txt, rtf and rtfd), and these items will appear in the \{\'85\} pop-up menu next to the expansion text field. Select such an item, and Typinator will create a placeholder, such as\
    \{Text/Lorem Ipsum.txt\}.\
When you later use this expansion, Typinator replaces the placeholder with the actual contents of the file.\
This is a very convenient way to create and maintain a piece of text in one place, yet use it in multiple expansions.\
Note that text formatting and embedded pictures in rich text files get lost when you insert them in plain text expansions. For example, try the \'93made with Typinator\'94 include file in a plain text and a formatted text expansion.\
\
You can easily organize your items by creating subfolders. For example, the file "Lorem Ipsum.txt" is located in a subfolder "Text", and you could put mail signatures in a separate subfolder "Signatures". In the \{\'85\} menu, these subfolders appear as submenus.\
\
In addition to text files, you can also put AppleScript/JavaScript files or shell scripts in the Includes folder. When you insert such an item in an expansion, Typinator runs the script and then replaces the placeholder with the result of the script execution. The Scripts folder contains a few useful scripts that you can use out of the box without any programming knowledge. For example, the SafariURL script inserts the URL from the address field in the active Safari window.\
\
For more information about the default scripts that came with Typinator, see the "Default Scripts.rtf" document.\
For even more scripts, please visit our {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ergonis.com/downloads/extras/"}}{\fldrslt Download Extras}} web page. You will find a few cool ideas for extending Typinator there, and you can expect more to come in the future.\
If you wish to write your own scripts, please see the "Creating Typinator Scripts" documentation that is also available for download on the Download Extras page.\
}