\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename aidermacs-extras.info
@settitle aidermacs-extras: Extensions for aidermacs
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* Aidermacs Extras: (aidermacs-extras). Extensions for aidermacs.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title aidermacs-extras: Extensions for aidermacs
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top aidermacs-extras: Extensions for aidermacs

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{aidermacs-extras.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* Commands::
* Functions::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Commands

* Chat history::
* Repository map::
* Launching Aider::

Functions

* Process management::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{aidermacs-extras.el} extends the @samp{aidermacs} package, which
integrates the Aider AI coding assistant into Emacs.  While
@samp{aidermacs} itself handles running Aider sessions and sending prompts,
this extension focuses on the surrounding workflow: extracting useful
information from the chat history, managing the Aider process
lifecycle, and launching Aider sessions with sensible defaults.

The main capabilities are:

@itemize
@item
Copying recent or selected portions of the Aider chat history to the
kill ring for reference or sharing (@ref{Chat history, , Chat history commands}).
@item
Preventing accidental termination of active Aider sessions
(@ref{Process management}).
@item
Saving the repository map to a file for inspection
(@ref{Repository map}).
@item
Launching Aider in the current directory with the current file
pre-loaded (@ref{Launching Aider}).
@end itemize

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Chat history::
* Repository map::
* Launching Aider::
@end menu

@node Chat history
@section Chat history

@findex aidermacs-extras-copy-recent-history-to-kill-ring
After a long Aider session you may want to review or share the most
recent exchanges.  The command
@code{aidermacs-extras-copy-recent-history-to-kill-ring} copies the last N
lines of the @samp{.aider.chat.history.md} file (located in the project
root) to the kill ring.  By default N is 1000; with a prefix argument
(e.g., @samp{C-u 500}) you can specify a different count.

The command uses the external @samp{tail} utility rather than loading the
file into an Emacs buffer, which keeps it fast even when the history
file is very large.

@findex aidermacs-extras-copy-prompt-region
When you need a specific stretch of the conversation rather than the
tail end, use @code{aidermacs-extras-copy-prompt-region}.  This command
scans the current buffer---expected to be the
@samp{.aider.chat.history.md} file---for Aider prompt blocks (lines
beginning with =#### =) and prompts you to select a start block and
an end block via minibuffer completion.

The copied region spans from the beginning of the start block to the
beginning of the block @emph{after} the end block (or to the end of the
buffer if the end block is the last one).  Pressing @samp{RET} without
selecting an end block copies everything from the start block to the
end of the buffer.  The text is placed in the kill ring.

@node Repository map
@section Repository map

@findex aidermacs-extras-save-repo-map
The command @code{aidermacs-extras-save-repo-map} runs
@samp{aider --show-repo-map} and writes the output to @samp{repo-map.md} in the
project root.  This gives you a static snapshot of the repository
structure that Aider sees, which can be useful for debugging context
issues.  When the optional ASYNC argument is non-nil, the command runs
asynchronously.

@node Launching Aider
@section Launching Aider

@findex aidermacs-extras-run-in-current-dir
The command @code{aidermacs-extras-run-in-current-dir} starts an Aider
session in the current @code{default-directory}.  If invoked from a buffer
that visits a file, the command automatically adds that file to the
Aider session with the @samp{--file} flag.  It also looks for an
associated help file (via @code{files-extras-get-help-file} from
@samp{files-extras.el}) and, if one exists, adds it as well.  This saves
you from having to manually specify files after launching Aider.

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

@menu
* Process management::
@end menu

@node Process management
@section Process management

@findex aidermacs-extras-confirm-kill-buffer
The function @code{aidermacs-extras-confirm-kill-buffer} is designed to be
added to @code{kill-buffer-query-functions}.  When you attempt to kill a
buffer, it checks whether the buffer is a @samp{comint-mode} buffer whose
name starts with @samp{*aidermacs} and which has a running process.  If all
three conditions hold, the function prompts for confirmation before
allowing the kill.  This prevents accidental termination of an active
Aider session---a mistake that would lose the current conversation
state.

If the buffer is not an Aidermacs buffer or has no running process,
the function returns @code{t} immediately and the kill proceeds without
interruption.

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
