\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename bbdb-extras.info
@settitle bbdb-extras: Extensions for BBDB
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* BBDB Extras: (bbdb-extras). Extensions for the Insidious Big Brother Database.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title bbdb-extras: Extensions for BBDB
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top bbdb-extras: Extensions for BBDB

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{bbdb-extras.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* Commands::
* Functions::
* Patched functions::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Commands

* Quick record creation::
* Exporting to vCard::
* Deleting without confirmation::

Functions

* Reading a quick record::

Patched functions

* Browsing URLs directly::
* Displaying the BBDB buffer::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{bbdb-extras.el} extends BBDB (the Insidious Big Brother Database),
Emacs' contact management system.  The stock BBDB interface requires
several prompts to create a record and asks for confirmation before
routine actions such as opening a URL or deleting a field.  This
package streamlines those interactions and adds the ability to export
contacts to the system address book.

The extensions fall into three areas:

@itemize
@item
@strong{Quick record creation}: create a new contact by providing only a
name, skipping the prompts for email, phone, and other fields
(@ref{Quick record creation}).
@item
@strong{Export}: send the current BBDB record to macOS Contacts as a vCard
(@ref{Exporting to vCard}).
@item
@strong{Patched behaviors}: open URLs without confirmation and display the
BBDB buffer without splitting windows (@ref{Patched functions}).
@end itemize

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Quick record creation::
* Exporting to vCard::
* Deleting without confirmation::
@end menu

@node Quick record creation
@section Quick record creation

@findex bbdb-extras-create-quick
When you just need to jot down someone's name without filling in every
field, use @code{bbdb-extras-create-quick}.  It prompts only for the
contact's first and last name, creates a minimal BBDB record, and
displays it.  This replaces the standard @code{bbdb-create-internal}
workflow, which asks for email, phone, address, and notes.

Internally the command delegates to @code{bbdb-extras-read-record-quick}
(@ref{Reading a quick record}), which handles the name prompt and
validation.

@node Exporting to vCard
@section Exporting to vCard

@findex bbdb-extras-export-vcard
The command @code{bbdb-extras-export-vcard} exports the BBDB record at
point to a temporary @samp{.vcf} file and opens it with the system's
default handler (@samp{open} on macOS), which is typically the Contacts
application.  This provides a quick path from BBDB to the system
address book without manual copy-pasting.  It relies on the
@samp{bbdb-vcard} package for the actual vCard serialization.

@node Deleting without confirmation
@section Deleting without confirmation

@findex bbdb-extras-delete-field-or-record-no-confirm
By default, @code{bbdb-delete-field-or-record} asks for confirmation before
every deletion.  If you find this disruptive---especially during bulk
cleanup---the command
@code{bbdb-extras-delete-field-or-record-no-confirm} performs the same
deletion but bypasses the confirmation prompt.  Use with care, as the
action is not undoable.

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

@menu
* Reading a quick record::
@end menu

@node Reading a quick record
@section Reading a quick record

@findex bbdb-extras-read-record-quick
The function @code{bbdb-extras-read-record-quick} creates an empty BBDB
record and populates only its first and last name fields via
@code{bbdb-read-name}.  The optional FIRST-AND-LAST argument controls the
reading mode (see the @code{bbdb-read-name} docstring for details).  This
function is used by @code{bbdb-extras-create-quick}
(@ref{Quick record creation}).

@node Patched functions
@chapter Patched functions

@samp{bbdb-extras.el} overrides two standard BBDB functions via @code{advice-add}
with @samp{:override}.

@menu
* Browsing URLs directly::
* Displaying the BBDB buffer::
@end menu

@node Browsing URLs directly
@section Browsing URLs directly

@findex bbdb-extras-browse-url
The function @code{bbdb-extras-browse-url} replaces @code{bbdb-browse-url}.  The
stock version asks the user to confirm before opening each URL; the
patched version opens the URL in the @samp{url} field directly with
@code{browse-url}.  A prefix argument WHICH (starting from 0) selects which
URL to open when the field contains multiple entries.

@node Displaying the BBDB buffer
@section Displaying the BBDB buffer

@findex bbdb-extras-pop-up-window
The function @code{bbdb-extras-pop-up-window} replaces @code{bbdb-pop-up-window}.
The stock version splits the largest window to show the @samp{*BBDB*}
buffer, which can be disruptive in tiled layouts.  The patched version
reuses an existing window instead of splitting, providing a less
intrusive display.  If the @samp{*BBDB*} buffer is already visible, the
function simply selects its window when SELECT is non-nil.

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
