\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename bibtex-extras.info
@settitle bibtex-extras: Extensions for Bib@TeX{} mode
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* BibTeX Extras: (bibtex-extras). Extensions for BibTeX mode.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title bibtex-extras: Extensions for Bib@TeX{} mode
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top bibtex-extras: Extensions for Bib@TeX{} mode

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{bibtex-extras.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* Commands::
* Functions::
* Patched functions::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Commands

* Opening entries in Ebib::
* Setting fields interactively::
* Attaching files from URLs::
* Escaping special characters::

Functions

* Getting entry and field data::
* Setting and modifying fields::
* Moving entries::
* Attaching files to entries::
* Sorting entries::
* Miscellaneous helpers::

Patched functions

* Year field lookup::
* Page dash formatting::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{bibtex-extras.el} extends Emacs' built-in @samp{bibtex-mode} with functions
for manipulating Bib@TeX{} entries and fields, integrating with the @samp{ebib}
bibliography manager, and automating common tasks in a Bib@LaTeX{}
workflow.  It depends on @samp{ebib} for database operations and @samp{el-patch}
for patching built-in Bib@TeX{} functions.

The package provides a comprehensive set of getter and setter functions
for Bib@TeX{} fields, making it easy to read, write, and modify field
values programmatically.  These functions are used by other packages in
the extras ecosystem (such as @samp{ebib-extras.el} and @samp{eww-extras.el}) as
building blocks for higher-level operations.

For daily use, the package offers commands to open the current entry in
Ebib, move entries between bibliography files, convert misnamed fields
(e.g., Zotero's ``titleaddon'' to the standard ``journaltitle''), attach
downloaded files to entries, and escape special characters in Bib@TeX{}
files.

The package also includes a custom sorting predicate that replicates
Ebib's sorting behavior, ensuring consistent ordering regardless of
whether the buffer is sorted by @samp{bibtex-mode} or @samp{ebib}.

Two @samp{el-patch} modifications adjust built-in behavior: one adds
``urldate'' to the year lookup fields for automatic key generation, and
the other changes the page-dashes formatter to add a missing en-dash
rather than remove an existing one.

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Opening entries in Ebib::
* Setting fields interactively::
* Attaching files from URLs::
* Escaping special characters::
@end menu

@node Opening entries in Ebib
@section Opening entries in Ebib

@findex bibtex-extras-open-in-ebib
The command @code{bibtex-extras-open-in-ebib} opens the Bib@TeX{} entry at point
in the Ebib interface.  It saves the current buffer, reloads the
corresponding Ebib database to reflect any recent edits, switches to
the entry in Ebib, and displays the entry buffer.

This is useful when you are editing a Bib@TeX{} file directly and want to
switch to Ebib's richer interface for operations like viewing associated
files, editing fields with completion, or navigating cross-references.

@node Setting fields interactively
@section Setting fields interactively

@findex bibtex-extras-set-field
The command @code{bibtex-extras-set-field} prompts for a field name and a
value, then sets that field in the current entry.  If the field already
exists, it replaces the value; if it does not, it creates the field.
This command was adapted from @code{bibtex-set-field} in @samp{doi-utils.el}.

@node Attaching files from URLs
@section Attaching files from URLs

@findex bibtex-extras-url-to-pdf-attach
@findex bibtex-extras-url-to-html-attach
The command @code{bibtex-extras-url-to-pdf-attach} generates a PDF from the
URL field of the current Bib@TeX{} entry (using @code{eww-extras-url-to-file}
from @samp{eww-extras.el}) and attaches the resulting file to the entry.
This provides a one-step workflow for archiving web resources alongside
their bibliographic records.

The command @code{bibtex-extras-url-to-html-attach} performs the equivalent
operation for HTML files.  Both commands require the entry to have a
``url'' field.

@node Escaping special characters
@section Escaping special characters

@findex bibtex-extras-escape-special-characters
The command @code{bibtex-extras-escape-special-characters} scans the current
Bib@TeX{} file and escapes unescaped special characters (@samp{$}, @samp{%}, @samp{#},
@samp{&}) by prepending a backslash.  It skips the ``url'' and ``file'' fields,
where these characters are legitimate.

This is useful after importing entries from external sources that may
not properly escape @LaTeX{}-special characters.

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

@menu
* Getting entry and field data::
* Setting and modifying fields::
* Moving entries::
* Attaching files to entries::
* Sorting entries::
* Miscellaneous helpers::
@end menu

@node Getting entry and field data
@section Getting entry and field data

@findex bibtex-extras-get-key
@findex bibtex-extras-get-field
@findex bibtex-extras-get-field-name
@findex bibtex-extras-get-field-in-string
@findex bibtex-extras-get-entry-as-string
The function @code{bibtex-extras-get-key} returns the citation key of the
Bib@TeX{} entry at point (e.g., ``Author2024'').  It narrows to the entry
and extracts the key from the entry header.

The function @code{bibtex-extras-get-field} returns the value of a named
field in the current entry.  Whitespace (newlines, tabs, multiple
spaces) within the value is normalized to single spaces.  It returns
@code{nil} if the field is empty or absent.

The function @code{bibtex-extras-get-field-name} returns the name of the
Bib@TeX{} field at point.  This is useful for context-dependent operations.

The function @code{bibtex-extras-get-field-in-string} extracts a field value
from a Bib@TeX{} entry represented as a string.  It creates a temporary
buffer, inserts the string, and delegates to @code{bibtex-extras-get-field}.

The function @code{bibtex-extras-get-entry-as-string} returns the complete
Bib@TeX{} entry at point (or a specified KEY) as a string.  When an
optional FIELD argument is provided, it returns only that field's value.
The search can be restricted to specific FILES or defaults to
@code{bibtex-files}.

@node Setting and modifying fields
@section Setting and modifying fields

@findex bibtex-extras-add-or-update-field
@findex bibtex-extras-append-to-field
@findex bibtex-extras-kill-field
@findex bibtex-extras-convert-titleaddon-to-journaltitle
The function @code{bibtex-extras-add-or-update-field} creates a field with
the given value if it does not exist, or updates its value if it does.
It combines @code{bibtex-make-field} and @code{bibtex-set-field} into a single
operation.

The function @code{bibtex-extras-append-to-field} appends a value to an
existing field, using a configurable delimiter (defaulting to ``;'').  If
the field is empty, it sets the value directly.  This is useful for
fields like ``keywords'' that accumulate multiple values.

The function @code{bibtex-extras-kill-field} removes a named field from the
current entry entirely.

The function @code{bibtex-extras-convert-titleaddon-to-journaltitle} renames
the ``titleaddon'' field to ``journaltitle'' in the current entry.  This
corrects a common issue with entries imported via the Zotero translation
server, which records the online publication venue in ``titleaddon''
rather than the standard Bib@LaTeX{} ``journaltitle'' field.

@node Moving entries
@section Moving entries

@findex bibtex-extras-move-entry
The function @code{bibtex-extras-move-entry} moves a Bib@TeX{} entry identified
by KEY from its current bibliography file to a TARGET file.  It locates
the source file using @code{ebib-extras-get-file-of-key}, kills the entry
from the source buffer, and yanks it at the end of the target buffer,
saving both.  Ebib must be open for the source file lookup to work.

@node Attaching files to entries
@section Attaching files to entries

@findex bibtex-extras-url-to-file-attach
@findex bibtex-extras-attach-file-to-entry
The function @code{bibtex-extras-url-to-file-attach} generates a file of the
specified type from the entry's URL field and attaches it using a
callback.  It is the shared implementation behind
@code{bibtex-extras-url-to-pdf-attach} and @code{bibtex-extras-url-to-html-attach}
(@ref{Attaching files from URLs}).

The function @code{bibtex-extras-attach-file-to-entry} attaches a file to
the Bib@TeX{} entry whose key matches the file's base name.  It is used as
a callback by the URL-to-file download functions.

@node Sorting entries
@section Sorting entries

@findex bibtex-extras-entry-sorter
@findex bibtex-extras-lessp
The function @code{bibtex-extras-entry-sorter} returns a list containing the
entry key and a flag indicating whether the entry has a ``crossref''
field.  It is used by @code{bibtex-maintain-sorted-entries} as the key
extraction function.

The function @code{bibtex-extras-lessp} is the comparison predicate for
sorting Bib@TeX{} entries.  Entries with a ``crossref'' field are placed
before others and sorted in reverse alphabetical order by key.  All
remaining entries are sorted alphabetically.  This replicates Ebib's
sorting behavior, ensuring that sorting by either tool produces the same
result.

@node Miscellaneous helpers
@section Miscellaneous helpers

@findex bibtex-extras-replace-element-by-name
The function @code{bibtex-extras-replace-element-by-name} replaces an
element in a list whose @code{car} matches a target name with a new element.
It modifies the list in place.

@node Patched functions
@chapter Patched functions

@menu
* Year field lookup::
* Page dash formatting::
@end menu

@node Year field lookup
@section Year field lookup

@findex bibtex-autokey-get-year
The function @code{bibtex-autokey-get-year} is patched using @samp{el-patch} to
include ``urldate'' in the list of fields checked when determining the
year for automatic key generation.  The standard function checks only
``date'' and ``year''; the patch adds ``urldate'' as a fallback.  This allows
Bib@TeX{} to generate keys for online resources that have only an access
date.

@node Page dash formatting
@section Page dash formatting

@findex bibtex-format-entry
The function @code{bibtex-format-entry} is patched to change the page-dash
behavior.  The standard function normalizes page ranges to a single dash
(e.g., ``1--10'' becomes ``1-10'').  The patched version does the opposite:
it ensures page ranges use an en-dash (e.g., ``1-10'' becomes ``1--10''),
which is the correct Bib@LaTeX{} convention for page ranges.

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
