\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename bibtex-completion-extras.info
@settitle bibtex-completion-extras: Extensions for bibtex-completion
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* BibTeX Completion Extras: (bibtex-completion-extras). Extensions for bibtex-completion.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title bibtex-completion-extras: Extensions for bibtex-completion
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top bibtex-completion-extras: Extensions for bibtex-completion

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{bibtex-completion-extras.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* Patched functions::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Patched functions

* Initialization without file watching::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{bibtex-completion-extras.el} provides a targeted extension for the
@samp{bibtex-completion} package, which underlies bibliography completion
interfaces such as @samp{ivy-bibtex} and @samp{helm-bibtex}.  It depends on
@samp{el-patch} for modifying the initialization function.

The sole purpose of this package is to disable the automatic file
watching that @samp{bibtex-completion} sets up during initialization.  By
default, @samp{bibtex-completion} uses @code{file-notify-add-watch} to monitor
bibliography files and automatically reload them when changes are
detected.  This can cause performance issues with large bibliography
files or on systems where file notification events are frequent.

By removing the file-watching code, this package trades automatic
reloading for manual control.  The bibliography data can still be
refreshed on demand by calling @code{bibtex-completion-clear-cache} followed
by any completion command, or simply by restarting Emacs.

@node Patched functions
@chapter Patched functions

@menu
* Initialization without file watching::
@end menu

@node Initialization without file watching
@section Initialization without file watching

@findex bibtex-completion-init
The function @code{bibtex-completion-init} is patched using @samp{el-patch} to
remove the block of code that sets up file watches on bibliography
files.  The original function iterates over all files returned by
@code{bibtex-completion-normalize-bibliography}, verifies they exist, and
adds a @code{file-notify-add-watch} for each one.  The patched version skips
this entire loop.

The rest of the initialization---removing old watch descriptors and
pre-calculating display format widths---is preserved unchanged.  This
means existing watches from a previous initialization are still cleaned
up properly, and the completion display continues to work as expected.

The patch is applied at load time using @samp{el-patch-defun}.  If you later
need to re-enable file watching, you can call the original function via
@samp{el-patch-unpatch} or simply unload this package.

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
