\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename calendar-extras.info
@settitle calendar-extras: Extensions for Emacs calendar
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* Calendar Extras: (calendar-extras). Extensions for Emacs calendar.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title calendar-extras: Extensions for Emacs calendar
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top calendar-extras: Extensions for Emacs calendar

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{calendar-extras.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* User options::
* Commands::
* Functions::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

User options

* Geolocation settings::

Commands

* Geolocation::
* Date utilities::
* Block agenda::

Functions

* Fetching geolocation data::
* Enumerating date ranges::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{calendar-extras.el} extends Emacs' built-in @code{calendar} library with
geolocation awareness, date utilities, and visual agenda display.  The
package exists because the stock calendar has no facility for
automatically determining the user's location, and common date
arithmetic tasks---such as finding the last day of the previous month
or enumerating every date in a range---require boilerplate that is
better factored into reusable helpers.

The geolocation subsystem (@ref{Geolocation}) fetches latitude, longitude,
and city name from an IP-based service and stores them for use by
sunrise/sunset calculations and other location-dependent features.

The date utilities (@ref{Date utilities}) cover inserting formatted dates and
generating date ranges.  A separate command (@ref{Block agenda}) displays
the current day's Org agenda in the @samp{calfw} visual time-block view.

@node User options
@chapter User options

@menu
* Geolocation settings::
@end menu

@node Geolocation settings
@section Geolocation settings

@vindex calendar-extras-location-name
The user option @code{calendar-extras-location-name} stores the name of the
current location as a string.  You can set it manually, or let
@code{calendar-extras-set-geolocation} populate it automatically from an IP
lookup (@ref{Geolocation}).  The default value is an empty string.

@vindex calendar-extras-personal-geolocation
The user option @code{calendar-extras-personal-geolocation} holds an alist
of geolocation data.  Each key is a city name (a string) and each
value is a plist with @samp{:latitude} (float), @samp{:longitude} (float), and
@samp{:timezone} (string).  Like @code{calendar-extras-location-name}, this
option is typically set by @code{calendar-extras-set-geolocation} rather
than by hand.  The default value is an empty list.

@vindex calendar-extras-use-geolocation
The user option @code{calendar-extras-use-geolocation} is a boolean that
controls whether geolocation features are active.  When non-nil,
@code{calendar-extras-set-geolocation} can automatically determine and set
location-related variables.  The default value is @code{nil}.

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Geolocation::
* Date utilities::
* Block agenda::
@end menu

@node Geolocation
@section Geolocation

@findex calendar-extras-set-geolocation
When you move to a different city and want calendar computations
(sunrise/sunset, holidays) to reflect your new location, invoke
@code{calendar-extras-set-geolocation}.  The command calls the Geoapify
API---using an API key retrieved from @samp{auth-source-pass} under the
entry @samp{tlon/core/api.geoapify.com}---to look up your latitude,
longitude, and city name from your IP address.  It then writes the
result into @code{calendar-extras-personal-geolocation} and
@code{calendar-extras-location-name} and confirms the update in the echo
area.

Internally, the command delegates the HTTP request to
@code{calendar-extras-get-geolocation} (@ref{Fetching geolocation data}).

@node Date utilities
@section Date utilities

@findex calendar-extras-time-last-day-of-last-month
Bookkeeping and reporting tasks often need the last day of the
previous month.  The command @code{calendar-extras-time-last-day-of-last-month}
computes that date and inserts it at point in @samp{YYYY-MM-DD} format.  It
handles the January boundary correctly, rolling back to December of
the previous year when necessary.

@node Block agenda
@section Block agenda

@findex calendar-extras-calfw-block-agenda
If you use the @samp{calfw} (Calendar Framework) package and prefer a
visual, time-blocked view of your day, the command
@code{calendar-extras-calfw-block-agenda} opens a @samp{calfw} buffer in
@samp{block-day} view, sourcing its contents from Org agenda items.  This
provides an at-a-glance alternative to the standard Org agenda
dispatcher.

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

@menu
* Fetching geolocation data::
* Enumerating date ranges::
@end menu

@node Fetching geolocation data
@section Fetching geolocation data

@findex calendar-extras-get-geolocation
The function @code{calendar-extras-get-geolocation} performs the HTTP
request to the Geoapify API and parses the JSON response.  It returns
a plist with keys @samp{:lat}, @samp{:lon}, and @samp{:city}.  This function
requires an API key configured via @samp{auth-source-pass}.  It is used by
@code{calendar-extras-set-geolocation} (@ref{Geolocation}) and can also be called
programmatically when you need raw geolocation data without updating
the user options.

@node Enumerating date ranges
@section Enumerating date ranges

@findex calendar-extras-get-dates-in-range
The function @code{calendar-extras-get-dates-in-range} takes two date
strings (START-DATE and END-DATE, in a format understood by
@code{date-to-time}, such as @samp{YYYY-MM-DD}) and returns a list of all dates
between them, inclusive, each formatted as @samp{YYYY-MM-DD}.  This is
useful for generating sequences of dates in scripts or batch
operations.

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
