\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename color-extras.info
@settitle color-extras: Extensions for color handling
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* Color Extras: (color-extras). Extensions for color handling.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title color-extras: Extensions for color handling
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top color-extras: Extensions for color handling

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{color-extras.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* Variables::
* Commands::
* Functions::
* Embark integration::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Variables

* Regular expression patterns::

Commands

* Conversion::
* Contrast analysis::

Functions

* Parsing and detection::
* HSL formatting::
* Color space conversions::
* Rescaling helpers::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{color-extras.el} extends Emacs' built-in @code{color} library with
practical tools for working with color values in everyday editing.
Theme authors, CSS developers, and anyone who manipulates color codes
in source files will find it useful.

The package provides three main capabilities:

@itemize
@item
@strong{Conversion} between hexadecimal (HEX) and Hue-Saturation-Luminance
(HSL) color representations, either for the color at point or for
every color in a buffer (@ref{Conversion, , Conversion commands}).
@item
@strong{Contrast analysis} against white, black, and an optional reference
color, following the WCAG contrast ratio standard
(@ref{Contrast analysis}).
@item
@strong{Embark integration} that lets you act on any HEX or HSL color
string with a single keystroke (@ref{Embark integration}).
@end itemize

Internally, the package relies on Emacs' built-in @code{color-rgb-to-hsl}
and @code{color-hsl-to-rgb} for the mathematical conversions and on the
@samp{ct} package for contrast ratio computation.

@node Variables
@chapter Variables

@menu
* Regular expression patterns::
@end menu

@node Regular expression patterns
@section Regular expression patterns

@vindex color-extras-hex-pattern
The constant @code{color-extras-hex-pattern} is a regular expression that
matches a six-digit hexadecimal RGB color string, with or without a
leading @samp{#}.  The first capture group contains the six hex digits.
This pattern is used throughout the package to detect HEX colors at
point and in buffer-wide searches (@ref{Conversion, , Conversion commands}).

@vindex color-extras-hsl-scaled-pattern
The constant @code{color-extras-hsl-scaled-pattern} is a regular expression
that matches an HSL color written as three comma-separated numbers
(e.g., @samp{210, 50%, 40%}).  Hue ranges from 0 to 360; saturation and
luminance range from 0 to 100 and may include trailing @samp{%}  signs.
The three capture groups correspond to hue, saturation, and luminance.

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Conversion::
* Contrast analysis::
@end menu

@node Conversion
@section Conversion

@findex color-extras-convert
When you need to switch a color between HEX and HSL notation, place
point on the color value and call @code{color-extras-convert}.  If the
color at point is HEX (e.g., @samp{#ff0000}), the command converts it to
HSL (e.g., @samp{0, 100%, 50%}); if it is HSL, the command produces HEX@.
The converted value is saved to the kill ring and reported in the echo
area, so you can immediately yank it wherever you need it.  If no
recognizable color is found at point, the command prompts for one.

@findex color-extras-convert-all
To convert every color in a file at once, use
@code{color-extras-convert-all}.  It prompts for the target format---either
@samp{"hex"} or @samp{"hsl"}---and replaces all colors matching the @emph{opposite}
format throughout the buffer.  For example, choosing @samp{"hex"} finds all
HSL strings and rewrites them as HEX values.  An optional FILE
argument lets you operate on a file other than the current buffer.

@node Contrast analysis
@section Contrast analysis

@findex color-extras-contrast
Verifying that foreground and background colors meet accessibility
guidelines is a frequent need.  The command @code{color-extras-contrast}
computes the WCAG contrast ratio between a primary color and both
white (@samp{#ffffff}) and black (@samp{#000000}), displaying the results in the
echo area.  If you supply an optional second color, the command also
reports the contrast ratio between the two.

The primary color defaults to the color at point; if none is found,
the command prompts for one.  The second color is always prompted for
and may be left blank.  This command requires the @samp{ct} package for its
@code{ct-contrast-ratio} function.

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

@menu
* Parsing and detection::
* HSL formatting::
* Color space conversions::
* Rescaling helpers::
@end menu

@node Parsing and detection
@section Parsing and detection

@findex color-extras-parse-color
@findex color-extras-looking-at-rgb
@findex color-extras-looking-at-hsl-scaled
@findex color-extras-looking-at-color
The function @code{color-extras-parse-color} accepts a color string and
returns either a HEX string (without the leading @samp{#}) or an HSL list
of three numbers, depending on which pattern matches.  Pass a non-nil
STRING argument to get the HSL result as a formatted string instead of
a list.

Three companion functions detect colors at point:
@code{color-extras-looking-at-rgb} returns the six-digit HEX string (or
@code{nil}), @code{color-extras-looking-at-hsl-scaled} returns the HSL color as
a list or formatted string, and @code{color-extras-looking-at-color} tries
HEX first and falls back to HSL@.  These are the building blocks used
by the interactive commands (@ref{Conversion}).

@node HSL formatting
@section HSL formatting

@findex color-extras-hsl-split
@findex color-extras-hsl-to-string
@findex color-extras-format-hsl
The function @code{color-extras-hsl-split} extracts hue, saturation, and
luminance from the current regexp match data (assuming a match against
@code{color-extras-hsl-scaled-pattern}) and returns them as a list of three
numbers.  @code{color-extras-hsl-to-string} takes such a list and formats
it as @samp{"H, S%, L%"}, rounding each component to the nearest integer.
@code{color-extras-format-hsl} is a convenience wrapper that returns either
the list or the string form depending on its STRING argument.

@node Color space conversions
@section Color space conversions

@findex color-extras-hex-to-hsl
@findex color-extras-hsl-to-hex
@findex color-extras-hex-to-rgb
@findex color-extras-rgb-to-hex
These four functions form the conversion core of the package.

@code{color-extras-hex-to-rgb} converts a HEX string (supporting 3-, 4-,
6-, and 8-digit forms) to a list of three RGB floats in the range
0.0--1.0.  @code{color-extras-rgb-to-hex} does the reverse, accepting
three integers in the range 0--255 and returning a @samp{#RRGGBB} string.

@code{color-extras-hex-to-hsl} converts a HEX string to an HSL list.  When
the optional RESCALE argument is non-nil, hue is scaled to 0--360 and
saturation and luminance to 0--100; otherwise all three values are in
the 0.0--1.0 range.  @code{color-extras-hsl-to-hex} performs the inverse
transformation, with the same RESCALE convention.

@node Rescaling helpers
@section Rescaling helpers

@findex color-extras-hsl-rescale
@findex color-extras-hsl-maybe-rescale
The function @code{color-extras-hsl-rescale} converts HSL values between
the normalized (0.0--1.0) and scaled (0--360 / 0--100) ranges.  The
OPERATION argument should be @code{*} (to go from normalized to scaled) or
@code{/} (to go from scaled to normalized).
@code{color-extras-hsl-maybe-rescale} is a conditional wrapper that only
rescales when its RESCALE argument is non-nil.

@node Embark integration
@chapter Embark integration

@findex color-extras-embark-color-finder
When the @samp{embark} package is loaded, @samp{color-extras.el} registers a
target finder, @code{color-extras-embark-color-finder}, that recognizes HEX
and HSL color strings at point and tags them with the @code{color}
category.

A dedicated keymap, @code{color-extras-embark-map}, is associated with this
category.  It provides two actions:

@table @asis
@item @samp{c}
@code{color-extras-convert} --- convert between HEX and HSL
(@ref{Conversion}).
@item @samp{w}
@code{embark-copy-as-kill} --- copy the color string to the kill
ring.
@end table

This means you can invoke @samp{embark-act} with point on any color value
and immediately convert it or copy it.

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
