\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename doom-modeline-extras.info
@settitle doom-modeline-extras: Extensions for doom-modeline
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* Doom Modeline Extras: (doom-modeline-extras). Extensions for doom-modeline.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title doom-modeline-extras: Extensions for doom-modeline
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top doom-modeline-extras: Extensions for doom-modeline

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{doom-modeline-extras.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* User options::
* Faces::
* Modeline segments::
* Modeline definitions::
* Functions::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

User options

* Segment visibility::
* Claude Code cost display::
* Claude Code detail toggles::

Modeline segments

* Claude Code status::
* Tlon segments::
* Org Roam backlinks::
* AI context::

Functions

* GitHub notification handling::
* Formatting helpers::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{doom-modeline-extras.el} extends the @samp{doom-modeline} package with
custom modeline segments, a dedicated modeline layout for Claude Code
sessions, and enhanced handling of GitHub notifications.

The package defines several modeline segments that surface contextual
information not provided by the standard @samp{doom-modeline} segments:

@itemize
@item
A @strong{Claude Code status} segment that displays the session name, model,
token count, cost, context usage percentage, lines changed, duration,
and cache efficiency for active Claude Code sessions.
@item
An @strong{AI context} segment showing how many files are currently in the
@samp{gptel} context.
@item
An @strong{Org Roam backlinks} segment displaying the backlink count for the
current node.
@item
A @strong{Tlon split mode} segment indicating when @code{tlon-split-mode} is active.
@item
A @strong{Tlon paragraph} segment showing paragraph-level information from
@code{tlon-paragraphs-mode-line-mode}.
@end itemize

On the notifications side, the package hooks into Doom Modeline's GitHub
notification fetching to automatically pull Forge notifications when new
GitHub notifications arrive.

@node User options
@chapter User options

@menu
* Segment visibility::
* Claude Code cost display::
* Claude Code detail toggles::
@end menu

@node Segment visibility
@section Segment visibility

@vindex doom-modeline-extras-org-roam
@vindex doom-modeline-extras-tlon-split
@vindex doom-modeline-extras-ai-context
@vindex doom-modeline-extras-claude-code
@vindex doom-modeline-extras-claude-code-usage
The user option @code{doom-modeline-extras-org-roam} controls whether the Org
Roam backlink count segment is displayed.  When non-@code{nil} (the default),
the backlink count appears in the modeline while visiting an Org mode
buffer that has backlinks.  Set it to @code{nil} to hide this segment.

The user option @code{doom-modeline-extras-tlon-split} controls whether the
Tlon split mode indicator is shown.  The default value is @code{t}.  When
@code{tlon-split-mode} is active and this option is non-@code{nil}, the word
``split'' appears in the modeline.

The user option @code{doom-modeline-extras-ai-context} controls whether the
AI context file count is displayed.  The default value is @code{t}.  When
non-@code{nil} and there are files in the @code{gptel-context--alist}, the count
appears as a sparkle icon with a number.

The user option @code{doom-modeline-extras-claude-code} controls whether the
Claude Code status segment is displayed in Claude Code buffers.  The
default value is @code{t}.

The user option @code{doom-modeline-extras-claude-code-usage} controls
whether rate limit burn-rate deviations are displayed in the Claude
Code modeline segment.  The default value is @code{t}.  When non-@code{nil}, the
segment shows how far ahead or behind the user is relative to a
uniform consumption pace for both the 5-hour session and 7-day weekly
windows.  Data is sourced from the usage polling in @samp{agent-claude}
(@ref{Top,agent-claude,,agent-claude,}).

@node Claude Code cost display
@section Claude Code cost display

@vindex doom-modeline-extras-claude-code-api-plan
The user option @code{doom-modeline-extras-claude-code-api-plan} determines
how session costs are rendered in the Claude Code modeline segment.
When @code{nil} (the default), the package assumes a subscription plan (Free,
Pro, or Max) and displays the cost with a strikethrough face to indicate
that the amount is not actually charged.  When non-@code{nil}, it assumes an
API plan and displays the cost normally, since the user is paying per
token.

The boolean type accepts @code{t} or @code{nil}.  You should set this to @code{t} if
you are using the Claude API directly rather than a subscription plan.

@node Claude Code detail toggles
@section Claude Code detail toggles

@vindex doom-modeline-extras-claude-code-tokens
@vindex doom-modeline-extras-claude-code-lines-changed
@vindex doom-modeline-extras-claude-code-cache-efficiency
The Claude Code status segment can display several optional detail
fields.  Each is controlled by a boolean user option that defaults to
@code{nil} (hidden).  Set any of them to @code{t} to include the corresponding
information in the modeline.

The user option @code{doom-modeline-extras-claude-code-tokens} controls
whether the input token count is shown.  When non-@code{nil}, the segment
displays a compact token count (e.g., ``12.3k'', ``1.5M'').

The user option @code{doom-modeline-extras-claude-code-lines-changed}
controls whether lines added and removed are shown.  When non-@code{nil},
the segment displays a @samp{+N/-M} indicator with color-coded faces.

The user option @code{doom-modeline-extras-claude-code-cache-efficiency}
controls whether the cache hit ratio is shown.  When non-@code{nil}, the
segment displays the percentage of cache-read tokens relative to total
tokens, color-coded by efficiency.

@node Faces
@chapter Faces

@vindex doom-modeline-extras-cost-free
The face @code{doom-modeline-extras-cost-free} is used to render the session
cost on non-API (subscription) plans.  It inherits from
@code{doom-modeline} and adds a strikethrough attribute, visually indicating
that the displayed cost is not actually charged to the user.

@node Modeline segments
@chapter Modeline segments

The segments described below are defined using
@code{doom-modeline-def-segment} and can be included in custom modeline
layouts.

@menu
* Claude Code status::
* Tlon segments::
* Org Roam backlinks::
* AI context::
@end menu

@node Claude Code status
@section Claude Code status

@findex doom-modeline-extras--format-claude-status
The @code{claude-code-status} segment is the most feature-rich segment in
this package.  It activates only in buffers recognized as Claude Code
sessions (via @code{claude-code--buffer-p}).  When session status data is
available, it displays multiple pipe-separated fields:

@itemize
@item
@strong{Backend icon}: the registered backend's icon, rendered via
@code{agent-backend-icon-string} from the @samp{agent} package.
@item
@strong{Session name}: shown in bold, extracted from the buffer name.
@item
@strong{Model}: the Claude model in use (e.g., ``opus'', ``sonnet'').
@item
@strong{Effort}: the Claude Code reasoning effort level (e.g., ``high'').
@item
@strong{Account}: the Claude account used for this session (e.g., ``personal'',
``work''), when multi-account support is configured.
@item
@strong{Rate limit burn rate}: shown as @samp{5h:+N% 7d:-M%} when
@code{doom-modeline-extras-claude-code-usage} is non-@code{nil}.  Each figure
is a deviation from the expected usage at this point in the window,
assuming uniform consumption across the entire period.  A positive
value (red) means the user is burning through the budget faster than
sustainable; a negative value (green) means the user is under budget.
Hovering shows a tooltip with raw utilization and the relative reset
time (e.g., ``27% used, -66% vs pace / Resets: in 2h 30m'').  The
underlying data comes from the usage polling in @samp{agent-claude}
(@ref{Top,agent-claude,,agent-claude,}).
@item
@strong{Token count}: formatted compactly (e.g., ``12.3k'', ``1.5M'').
@item
@strong{Cost}: shown as a dollar amount, optionally with strikethrough on
subscription plans (@ref{Claude Code cost display}).
@item
@strong{Context usage}: shown as a percentage with color coding---green below
60%, yellow at 60-79%, red at 80% and above.
@item
@strong{Lines changed}: a +N/-M display with green for additions and red for
deletions.
@item
@strong{Duration}: elapsed session time in a compact format (e.g., ``5m23s'').
@item
@strong{Cache efficiency}: the ratio of cache-read tokens to total tokens,
color-coded (green above 80%, yellow 50-79%, red below 50%).
@item
@strong{Alert indicator}: from @code{agent-alert-indicator}.
@end itemize

Codex sessions display the session name, configured model, reasoning
effort, account, elapsed duration, and alert indicator when those values
are available.  The reasoning effort comes from the live Codex buffer
override first, falling back to the account's @samp{config.toml}.

Before Claude status data arrives, the segment displays only the session
name.

The formatting is handled by several internal helper functions:
@code{doom-modeline-extras--format-model},
@code{doom-modeline-extras--format-account},
@code{doom-modeline-extras--format-effort},
@code{doom-modeline-extras--format-tokens},
@code{doom-modeline-extras--format-cost},
@code{doom-modeline-extras--format-context-percent},
@code{doom-modeline-extras--format-lines-changed},
@code{doom-modeline-extras--format-duration}, and
@code{doom-modeline-extras--format-cache-efficiency}.

@node Tlon segments
@section Tlon segments

The @code{tlon-split} segment displays the literal string ``split'' when
@code{tlon-split-mode} is active and @code{doom-modeline-extras-tlon-split} is
non-@code{nil}.

The @code{tlon-paragraph} segment displays paragraph information from
@code{tlon-paragraphs-mode-line-string} when @code{tlon-paragraphs-mode-line-mode}
is active.

@node Org Roam backlinks
@section Org Roam backlinks

The @code{org-roam-backlinks} segment displays the backlink count for the
current Org Roam node.  It reads the buffer-local variable
@code{org-roam-extras-current-backlink-count} (managed by
@samp{org-roam-extras.el}) and formats the count as a recycling symbol with a
count in parentheses.  The segment appears only in @code{org-mode} buffers
when @code{doom-modeline-extras-org-roam} is non-@code{nil}.

@node AI context
@section AI context

The @code{ai-context} segment displays the number of files currently in the
@samp{gptel} AI context list (@code{gptel-context--alist}).  It appears only when
@code{doom-modeline-extras-ai-context} is non-@code{nil} and the context is
non-empty.

@node Modeline definitions
@chapter Modeline definitions

The package defines a @code{claude-code} modeline layout using
@code{doom-modeline-def-modeline}.  This layout places the @code{claude-code-status}
segment on the left side (alongside the bar segment) and @code{misc-info},
@code{major-mode}, @code{process}, and @code{time} on the right.  It is intended for
use in Claude Code session buffers to give a comprehensive at-a-glance
view of the session state.

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

@menu
* GitHub notification handling::
* Formatting helpers::
@end menu

@node GitHub notification handling
@section GitHub notification handling

@findex doom-modeline-extras-handle-github-notifications
@findex doom-modeline-extras-refresh-github-after-forge
@vindex doom-modeline-extras-github-last-count
The function @code{doom-modeline-extras-handle-github-notifications} is
added to @code{doom-modeline-after-github-fetch-notification-hook}.  After
Doom Modeline fetches the GitHub notification count, this function
compares the new count against the previously stored count in the
variable @code{doom-modeline-extras-github-last-count}.

When the count has changed and is greater than zero, the function calls
@code{forge-extras-pull-notifications} from the @samp{forge-extras} package to
retrieve full notification details.  It then updates the stored count.
This provides a bridge between Doom Modeline's lightweight notification
polling and Forge's detailed notification management.

The function @code{doom-modeline-extras-refresh-github-after-forge} works in
the opposite direction: it is installed as @samp{:after} advice on
@code{forge--ghub-update-notifications} so that after Forge pulls
notifications, the Doom Modeline GitHub count updates immediately
rather than waiting for the next timer cycle.

@node Formatting helpers
@section Formatting helpers

@findex doom-modeline-extras--humanize-tokens
@findex doom-modeline-extras--humanize-duration
@findex doom-modeline-extras--context-face
@findex doom-modeline-extras--cache-face
The function @code{doom-modeline-extras--humanize-tokens} formats a token
count into a compact string using ``k'' and ``M'' suffixes.  For example,
1500 becomes ``1.5k'' and 2000000 becomes ``2.0M''.

The function @code{doom-modeline-extras--humanize-duration} formats
milliseconds into a compact time string.  For example, 125000 becomes
``2m5s'' and 7200000 becomes ``2h0m''.

The function @code{doom-modeline-extras--context-face} returns a face based
on context usage percentage: @code{doom-modeline-info} below 60%,
@code{doom-modeline-warning} between 60% and 79%, and @code{doom-modeline-urgent}
at 80% or above.

The function @code{doom-modeline-extras--cache-face} returns a face based on
cache hit percentage, using the inverse scale: @code{doom-modeline-info} at
80% or above, @code{doom-modeline-warning} between 50% and 79%, and
@code{doom-modeline-urgent} below 50%.

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
