\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename eww-extras.info
@settitle eww-extras: Extensions for EWW
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* EWW Extras: (eww-extras). Extensions for EWW.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title eww-extras: Extensions for EWW
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top eww-extras: Extensions for EWW

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{eww-extras.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* User options::
* Commands::
* Functions::
* Patches::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

User options

* Readability exceptions::
* Chrome data directory::

Commands

* Browsing local files::
* Generating files from URLs::
* Chrome data management::
* Adding readability exceptions::
* Vimium-like navigation::
* Switching renderers::
* Bibliography integration::

Functions

* Readability management::
* YouTube handling::
* File generation internals::

Patches

* Readability scoring::
* Readability node selection::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{eww-extras.el} extends EWW (Emacs Web Wowser), the built-in Emacs web
browser, with capabilities for generating files from web pages, managing
readability mode, navigating URL hierarchies, and integrating with other
packages.  It depends on the @samp{paths} and @samp{el-patch} packages.

The most substantial feature is the ability to generate PDF and HTML
files from any URL using headless Chrome.  This requires Chrome to be
installed and uses copies of the user's Chrome profile data for
authentication, enabling downloads from sites that require login.  The
generated files are placed in the downloads directory and can optionally
trigger a callback function (e.g., to attach the file to a Bib@TeX{}
entry).

The package also enhances EWW's readability mode.  By default, every
page rendered in EWW is automatically converted to its ``readable'' form
(stripping navigation, ads, and other clutter).  A file-backed exception
list allows excluding specific domains where readability mode produces
poor results.  Adding exceptions is a single command away.  The package
also patches an upstream bug in @code{eww-score-readability} that causes
CSS-heavy pages to render as empty buffers (@ref{Patches}).

For navigation, the package provides Vimium-style commands: editing the
current URL, opening kill ring content, and moving up or to the root of
the URL hierarchy.  It also provides commands for switching between EWW
and xwidget-webkit for different rendering needs.

Integration with other packages includes handling YouTube URLs via
@samp{elfeed-tube} (for transcript extraction) and @samp{mpv} (for video
playback), and adding the current page to a bibliography via
@samp{zotra-extras}.

@node User options
@chapter User options

@menu
* Readability exceptions::
* Chrome data directory::
@end menu

@node Readability exceptions
@section Readability exceptions

@vindex eww-extras-readable-exceptions
@vindex eww-extras-readable-exceptions-file
The user option @code{eww-extras-readable-exceptions} holds a list of URL
patterns (strings treated as regular expressions) for which
@code{eww-readable} should not be automatically applied.  The default value
is an empty list.  This variable is populated at load time from the file
specified by @code{eww-extras-readable-exceptions-file} and updated whenever
you add a new exception via
@code{eww-extras-add-domain-to-readable-exceptions}
(@ref{Adding readability exceptions}).

The user option @code{eww-extras-readable-exceptions-file} specifies the
path to the file containing readability exception patterns, one per
line.  The default value is @samp{etc/eww-readable-exceptions.txt} within
the Emacs configuration directory (via @code{paths-dir-dotemacs}).  You would
change this if you want to store the exceptions file elsewhere.

@node Chrome data directory
@section Chrome data directory

@vindex eww-extras-chrome-data-dir
The user option @code{eww-extras-chrome-data-dir} specifies the path to the
main Google Chrome profile directory.  The default value is
@samp{~/Library/Application Support/Google/Chrome/}.  This directory is used
as the source when creating profile copies for headless Chrome sessions
(@ref{Chrome data management}).  You should only change this if Chrome stores
its data in a non-standard location.

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Browsing local files::
* Generating files from URLs::
* Chrome data management::
* Adding readability exceptions::
* Vimium-like navigation::
* Switching renderers::
* Bibliography integration::
@end menu

@node Browsing local files
@section Browsing local files

@findex eww-extras-browse-file
The command @code{eww-extras-browse-file} opens a local file in EWW@.  It
tries several sources for the file path: an explicit FILE argument, the
filename at point, the current buffer's file, or a prompt.  This is
useful for previewing local HTML files or documents in the EWW renderer.

@node Generating files from URLs
@section Generating files from URLs

@findex eww-extras-url-to-pdf
@findex eww-extras-url-to-html
The command @code{eww-extras-url-to-pdf} generates a PDF file from a URL
using headless Chrome's print-to-PDF feature.  The URL is determined
from context (the current EWW page, kill ring, or a prompt).  The output
file is saved to the downloads directory (@code{paths-dir-downloads}) with a
name derived from the Bib@TeX{} key (if called from Ebib or Bib@TeX{} mode)
or the buffer name.

The command @code{eww-extras-url-to-html} generates an HTML file from a URL
using headless Chrome's DOM dump feature.  When called from a
bibliographic context, the file name is based on the Bib@TeX{} key;
otherwise, it uses a slugified version of the page title.

Both commands accept an optional CALLBACK function that is called with
the output file path and Bib@TeX{} key upon completion.  This enables
workflows like automatically attaching the generated file to a Bib@TeX{}
entry.

The commands require Chrome profile copies to exist for authentication.
Use @code{eww-extras-chrome-copy-data-dirs} to create or update them
(@ref{Chrome data management}).  The processes run asynchronously; check the
@samp{*eww-extras download file process*} buffer for detailed output.
Headless rendering always uses the copied Chrome @samp{Default} profile, and the
rendering script removes common subscription, cookie, modal, and overlay
elements before saving the PDF or HTML@.

@node Chrome data management
@section Chrome data management

@findex eww-extras-chrome-copy-data-dirs
@findex eww-extras-chrome-delete-data-dirs
The command @code{eww-extras-chrome-copy-data-dirs} creates or updates two
copies of the Chrome profile directory.  Two copies are needed to allow
simultaneous PDF and HTML generation (one headless Chrome instance per
copy).  The copies use @samp{rsync} for efficiency: the first run may take a
while, but subsequent updates are fast.

Chrome must be completely closed before running this command, because
headless Chrome cannot access a profile that is locked by a running
instance.  The command verifies this and signals an error if Chrome is
still running.

The command @code{eww-extras-chrome-delete-data-dirs} deletes both profile
copies after prompting for confirmation.  This can free substantial disk
space.

@node Adding readability exceptions
@section Adding readability exceptions

@findex eww-extras-add-domain-to-readable-exceptions
The command @code{eww-extras-add-domain-to-readable-exceptions} prompts for a
domain pattern and adds it to the readability exceptions file.  The
domain of the current EWW page (or a URL in the kill ring) is offered as
the default input.  After adding the exception, it reloads the
exceptions list and refreshes the current page.

This command provides a quick way to permanently opt out of readability
mode for sites where it strips important content.

@node Vimium-like navigation
@section Vimium-like navigation

@findex eww-extras-edit-current-url
@findex eww-extras-open-with-recent-kill-ring
@findex eww-extras-go-up-url-hierarchy
@findex eww-extras-go-to-root-url-hierarchy
The command @code{eww-extras-edit-current-url} pre-fills the minibuffer with
the current EWW URL and lets you edit it or enter a new search query.
With a prefix argument, the result opens in a new EWW buffer.

The command @code{eww-extras-open-with-recent-kill-ring} opens the most
recent kill ring entry as a URL in EWW@.  With a prefix argument, it
opens in a new EWW buffer.

The command @code{eww-extras-go-up-url-hierarchy} navigates one level up in
the URL path.  For example, from @samp{example.com/a/b/c} it navigates to
@samp{example.com/a/b}.

The command @code{eww-extras-go-to-root-url-hierarchy} navigates to the root
domain of the current URL, stripping all path components.

@node Switching renderers
@section Switching renderers

@findex eww-extras-open-with-xwidget
@findex eww-extras-open-with-eww
The command @code{eww-extras-open-with-xwidget} opens the current EWW page
in xwidget-webkit, providing a full WebKit rendering.  This is useful
when EWW's text-mode rendering is insufficient for a page's layout.
The command must be called from an EWW buffer.

The command @code{eww-extras-open-with-eww} performs the reverse operation:
it takes the URL from the current xwidget-webkit session and opens it
in EWW@.  This is useful when you want EWW's readability mode or
text-based navigation for a page you are viewing in xwidget-webkit.

@node Bibliography integration
@section Bibliography integration

@findex eww-extras-add-entry
The command @code{eww-extras-add-entry} adds the current EWW page's URL to a
bibliography file using @code{zotra-extras-add-entry}.  This command is
available only in @code{eww-mode} buffers.

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

@menu
* Readability management::
* YouTube handling::
* File generation internals::
@end menu

@node Readability management
@section Readability management

@findex eww-extras-readable-autoview
@findex eww-extras-set-readable-exceptions-from-file
The function @code{eww-extras-readable-autoview} is added to
@code{eww-after-render-hook}.  It automatically calls @code{eww-readable} unless
the current URL matches a pattern in @code{eww-extras-readable-exceptions} or
the page has no source content to process.  If the readability heuristic
selects a non-visible node (producing an empty buffer) or a node
covering only a tiny fraction of the article content, the function falls
back to displaying the full page.  This guards against the upstream
scoring bug described in @ref{Patches}) and against cases where
navigation-heavy elements drag down the full content node's score,
causing a narrow subsection to be selected instead.

The function @code{eww-extras-set-readable-exceptions-from-file} reads the
exception patterns from @code{eww-extras-readable-exceptions-file} and
populates the @code{eww-extras-readable-exceptions} variable.  It is called
automatically at load time and after adding a new exception.

@node YouTube handling
@section YouTube handling

@findex eww-extras-browse-youtube
The function @code{eww-extras-browse-youtube} is designed as a handler for
YouTube URLs (e.g., in @code{browse-url-handlers}).  When called with a
YouTube URL, it kills the current EWW buffer, ensures the external
video player is running (defaulting to @samp{mpv}), and fetches the video
transcript using @code{elfeed-tube-fetch}.  This provides a workflow where
you read the transcript in Emacs while watching the video in an external
player.

@node File generation internals
@section File generation internals

@findex eww-extras-url-to-file
@findex eww-extras-url-to-file-make-command
@findex eww-extras-url-to-file-sentinel
@findex eww-extras-run-callback
The function @code{eww-extras-url-to-file} is the core logic shared by
@code{eww-extras-url-to-pdf} and @code{eww-extras-url-to-html}.  It determines
the URL and output file name from context, constructs and starts the
headless Chrome process, and sets up the process sentinel.  An optional
@code{key} argument lets callers supply the Bib@TeX{} key directly, bypassing
the buffer-derived lookup.

The function @code{eww-extras-url-to-file-make-command} builds the shell
command for the headless Chrome rendering script, including the copied Chrome
data directory, the @samp{Default} profile, and a 30-second timeout.  URLs and
output paths are shell-quoted for safety.  The script drives Chrome through the
DevTools Protocol so it can remove common overlays before printing or dumping
the cleaned DOM@.

The function @code{eww-extras-url-to-file-sentinel} creates a process
sentinel that checks the exit status.  It runs the callback on success,
or if the file was created despite a non-zero exit status (which can
happen with certain Chrome warnings).

The function @code{eww-extras-run-callback} safely executes the optional
callback function with the output file and Bib@TeX{} key as arguments.

@node Patches
@chapter Patches

@menu
* Readability scoring::
* Readability node selection::
@end menu

@node Readability scoring
@section Readability scoring

@findex eww-score-readability
The built-in function @code{eww-score-readability} determines which part of a
web page contains the main textual content for @code{eww-readable}.  It
excludes @code{script}, @code{head}, and @code{comment} tags from scoring, but does not
exclude @code{style} tags.  CSS text inside @samp{<style>} elements is therefore
counted as readable content, which can cause CSS-heavy nodes (such as
Wikipedia's @samp{div.navbox-styles}) to win the readability contest over the
actual article.  The result is an empty buffer because the selected node
contains only invisible CSS@.

This package uses @code{el-patch} to add @code{style} to the exclusion list in
@code{eww-score-readability}, giving @samp{<style>} elements a score of -2 (the
same penalty applied to @code{script} and @code{head}).  As an additional safety
net, @code{eww-extras-readable-autoview} detects when the readable render
produces an empty buffer or a result smaller than 2% of the HTML source
size, and falls back to displaying the full page
(@ref{Readability management}).

@node Readability node selection
@section Readability node selection

@findex eww-highest-readability
The built-in function @code{eww-highest-readability} selects the DOM node
with the highest readability score for @code{eww-readable}.  It replaces the
current best node with a deeper child whenever the child scores higher
and contains more than 100 words.  On pages where navigation-heavy
elements (navboxes, table of contents, categories) drag down the full
content node's aggregate score, a small subsection—such as the lead
paragraph—can win the readability contest over the full article.

This package uses @code{el-patch} to raise the minimum word threshold from a
fixed 100 to @code{max(100, 1/3 of the current best node's word count)}.
This ensures a child must contain a substantial fraction of the
parent's text to replace it, preventing narrow subsections from winning
over broader content areas.

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
