\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename files-extras.info
@settitle files-extras: Extensions for file and buffer handling
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* Files Extras: (files-extras). Extensions for file and buffer handling.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title files-extras: Extensions for file and buffer handling
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top files-extras: Extensions for file and buffer handling

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{files-extras.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* User options::
* Commands::
* Functions::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

User options

* @code{files-extras-new-empty-buffer-major-mode}::

Commands

* Saving and reverting::
* Creating buffers::
* Switching buffers::
* Killing and burying buffers::
* Evaluating code::
* Copying paths and contents::
* OCR for PDF files::
* File recovery and diffing::
* Image conversion::
* Removing blank lines::
* Bypass paywalls extensions::
* Opening external editors::
* Buffer-local key bindings::
* Transient dispatch menus::

Functions

* Buffer information::
* File operations::
* Mode and buffer switching::
* Package management::
* Process support::
* Trash and auto-save support::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{files-extras.el} extends the built-in @samp{files.el} library with a broad
set of commands and utilities for managing files and buffers in Emacs.
It depends on the @samp{paths} package for directory and file path constants
and on @samp{transient} for quick-access dispatch menus.

The package addresses several common pain points in daily Emacs usage.
On macOS, it overrides the default trash mechanism to use the external
@samp{trash} utility, which preserves Finder's ``Put Back'' functionality.  It
adds safeguards around the scratch buffer, preventing accidental kills
by burying it instead.  It also provides an alert system for auto-save
data, ensuring that recovery notifications are not silently missed.

Beyond buffer management, the package integrates with external tools.
The @code{files-extras-ocr-pdf} command drives @samp{ocrmypdf} to add a text
layer to scanned PDFs, supporting language selection and forced re-OCR@.
A pair of commands automates downloading and installing the Bypass
Paywalls browser extensions for Chrome and Firefox.

The package also offers two transient dispatch menus: one for jumping to
frequently used files (inbox, config, agenda, ledger, etc.) and one for
opening personal Elpaca-managed packages.  These menus provide a
keyboard-driven launcher for the files you access most often.

@node User options
@chapter User options

@menu
* @code{files-extras-new-empty-buffer-major-mode}::
@end menu

@node @code{files-extras-new-empty-buffer-major-mode}
@section @code{files-extras-new-empty-buffer-major-mode}

@vindex files-extras-new-empty-buffer-major-mode
The user option @code{files-extras-new-empty-buffer-major-mode} specifies the
major mode to activate when creating a new empty buffer with
@code{files-extras-new-empty-buffer} (@ref{Creating buffers}).

The default value is @code{org-mode}.  It accepts any symbol naming a valid
major mode function.  If set to @code{nil}, the new buffer will use
@code{fundamental-mode}.  You might change this to @code{markdown-mode} or
@code{text-mode} if you prefer a different default for scratch-like buffers.

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Saving and reverting::
* Creating buffers::
* Switching buffers::
* Killing and burying buffers::
* Evaluating code::
* Copying paths and contents::
* OCR for PDF files::
* File recovery and diffing::
* Image conversion::
* Removing blank lines::
* Bypass paywalls extensions::
* Opening external editors::
* Buffer-local key bindings::
* Transient dispatch menus::
@end menu

@node Saving and reverting
@section Saving and reverting

@findex files-extras-save-and-revert-buffer
@findex files-extras-save-all-buffers
@findex files-extras-save-buffer-no-hooks
@findex files-extras-revert-all-file-buffers
The command @code{files-extras-save-and-revert-buffer} saves the current
buffer and immediately reverts it from disk.  This is useful when an
external process has modified the file and you want to ensure the buffer
reflects both your unsaved changes and the file's current state on disk.

The command @code{files-extras-save-all-buffers} saves all file-visiting
buffers without prompting for confirmation.  It passes a prefix argument
of 4 to @code{save-some-buffers}, which bypasses the per-buffer confirmation
that the default behavior would require.

The command @code{files-extras-save-buffer-no-hooks} saves the current buffer
while temporarily disabling both @code{before-save-hook} and
@code{after-save-hook}.  This is useful when hooks perform operations (such
as formatting or linting) that you want to skip for a particular save.

The command @code{files-extras-revert-all-file-buffers} refreshes every open
file buffer without confirmation.  Buffers with unsaved modifications
are left untouched, but buffers whose underlying files are no longer
readable are killed.  A summary message is displayed when the process
completes.

@node Creating buffers
@section Creating buffers

@findex files-extras-new-empty-buffer
@findex files-extras-new-buffer-in-current-mode
The command @code{files-extras-new-empty-buffer} creates a new buffer named
@samp{untitled<n>} and activates the major mode specified by the user option
@code{files-extras-new-empty-buffer-major-mode} (@ref{@code{files-extras-new-empty-buffer-major-mode}, , files-extras-new-empty-buffer-major-mode}).
The buffer is marked so that @code{save-some-buffers} will offer to save it.

The command @code{files-extras-new-buffer-in-current-mode} creates a new
buffer with the same major mode as the current one.  For @code{shell-mode} and
@code{eshell-mode}, it calls the appropriate shell launcher instead of simply
setting the mode, ensuring a proper process is attached.

@node Switching buffers
@section Switching buffers

@findex files-extras-switch-to-alternate-buffer
The command @code{files-extras-switch-to-alternate-buffer} switches to the
most recently used buffer in the current window, functioning as a quick
toggle between two buffers.  It respects the frame's @code{buffer-predicate}
parameter, so it will skip buffers that the frame is configured to
ignore.  Internally it uses @code{files-extras-get-alternate-buffer} to
determine the target (@ref{Buffer information}).

@node Killing and burying buffers
@section Killing and burying buffers

@findex files-extras-kill-this-buffer
@findex files-extras-kill-other-buffer
@findex files-extras-kill-this-buffer-switch-to-other-window
@findex files-extras-kill-all-file-visiting-buffers
@findex files-extras-bury-buffer-switch-to-other-window
The command @code{files-extras-kill-this-buffer} kills the current buffer.
This is a more reliable alternative to the built-in @code{kill-this-buffer},
which can sometimes stop working due to menu-bar assumptions.

The command @code{files-extras-kill-other-buffer} kills the buffer displayed in
the other window without changing the current window's focus.

The command @code{files-extras-kill-this-buffer-switch-to-other-window} kills
the current buffer and then switches to the last used window via
@code{window-extras-switch-to-last-window} (from @samp{window-extras.el}).  This
is useful when you finish reviewing a buffer and want to return to your
previous editing context in a single action.

The command @code{files-extras-kill-all-file-visiting-buffers} kills every
buffer that is visiting a file.  It accepts an optional EXCLUDED-FILES
list (for programmatic use) to preserve specific buffers.

The command @code{files-extras-bury-buffer-switch-to-other-window} buries the
current buffer and switches to the last used window.  This is a softer
alternative to killing: the buffer remains available but is moved to the
bottom of the buffer list.

@node Evaluating code
@section Evaluating code

@findex files-extras-eval-region-or-buffer
The command @code{files-extras-eval-region-or-buffer} evaluates the active
region if one is selected, otherwise evaluates the entire buffer.  This
provides a single keybinding for both common evaluation workflows.

@node Copying paths and contents
@section Copying paths and contents

@findex files-extras-show-buffer-name
@findex files-extras-copy-current-path
@findex files-extras-copy-contents
@findex files-extras-copy-as-kill-dwim
The command @code{files-extras-show-buffer-name} displays the buffer name in
the echo area and copies it to the kill ring.

The command @code{files-extras-copy-current-path} copies the full path of the
current buffer's file (or @code{default-directory} if the buffer is not
visiting a file) to the kill ring.

The command @code{files-extras-copy-contents} copies the entire contents of a
file to the kill ring.  When called interactively, it uses the file at
point in Dired, the current buffer's file, or prompts for a file.

The command @code{files-extras-copy-as-kill-dwim} copies a context-appropriate
string to the kill ring.  Currently, in a @code{helpful-mode} buffer, it
extracts the symbol name from the buffer title and kills the buffer.

@node OCR for PDF files
@section OCR for PDF files

@findex files-extras-ocr-pdf
The command @code{files-extras-ocr-pdf} applies optical character recognition
to a PDF file using the external @samp{ocrmypdf} tool (which must be
installed separately, e.g., via @samp{brew install ocrmypdf}).

The command determines the file to OCR from context: the file at point
in Dired, the file visited in @code{pdf-view-mode}, or the file associated
with the current Ebib or Bib@TeX{} entry.  It prompts for the language of
the document, using either Ebib's language field or a general language
selector.

With a prefix argument, the command forces OCR even if the PDF already
contains a text layer.  Without the prefix argument, @samp{ocrmypdf} will
skip files that have already been processed and report accordingly.

The process runs asynchronously.  Status messages are displayed as the
OCR proceeds, with duplicate messages suppressed.  The process filter
@code{files-extras-ocr-pdf-process-filter} translates raw @samp{ocrmypdf} output
into user-friendly messages (@ref{Process support}).

@node File recovery and diffing
@section File recovery and diffing

@findex files-extras-recover-all-files
@findex files-extras-diff-buffer-with-file
The command @code{files-extras-recover-all-files} recovers all files that have
auto-save data in the Emacs auto-save directory.  This is useful after a
crash when @code{recover-session} fails because no session file was created.
After each recovery attempt, it runs @code{files-extras-diff-buffer-with-file}
to show the differences.

The command @code{files-extras-diff-buffer-with-file} runs a unified diff
(@samp{-u}) comparing the current buffer against the file on disk.  This
command is also automatically called after @code{recover-this-file} via
@samp{:after} advice, so you always see what changed.

@node Image conversion
@section Image conversion

@findex files-extras-convert-image-to-pdf
The command @code{files-extras-convert-image-to-pdf} converts the image file
visited by the current buffer to PDF using the @samp{convert} tool
(ImageMagick).  The resulting PDF is placed in the same directory with
the same base name.

@node Removing blank lines
@section Removing blank lines

@findex files-extras-remove-extra-blank-lines
The command @code{files-extras-remove-extra-blank-lines} collapses consecutive
runs of blank lines into a single blank line throughout the current
buffer.

@node Bypass paywalls extensions
@section Bypass paywalls extensions

@findex files-extras-download-bypass-paywalls-chrome
@findex files-extras-download-bypass-paywalls-firefox
The command @code{files-extras-download-bypass-paywalls-chrome} downloads the
Bypass Paywalls Chrome Clean extension as a zip file, extracts it, opens
the Chrome extensions management page (via a Keyboard Maestro macro),
and opens the extracted folder in Finder.  The user then drags the
folder onto the extensions page to complete installation.

The command @code{files-extras-download-bypass-paywalls-firefox} performs the
equivalent operation for Firefox, downloading an XPI file and opening
the Firefox extensions page for manual installation.

Both commands verify that the download URL is reachable before
proceeding and will signal an error if it is not.

@node Opening external editors
@section Opening external editors

@findex files-extras-grammarly-open-in-external-editor
The command @code{files-extras-grammarly-open-in-external-editor} opens
Grammarly's web-based external editor in the default browser.

@node Buffer-local key bindings
@section Buffer-local key bindings

@findex files-extras-buffer-local-set-key
The command @code{files-extras-buffer-local-set-key} interactively binds a
key sequence to a command in the current buffer only.  It creates a new
sparse keymap with the current local map as its parent, adds the
binding, and installs the new map.  This is useful for one-off bindings
in specific buffers without affecting the global or mode-level keymap.

@node Transient dispatch menus
@section Transient dispatch menus

@findex files-extras-dispatch
@findex files-extras-packages-dispatch
The command @code{files-extras-dispatch} presents a transient menu for
jumping to frequently used files: inbox (mobile and desktop), agenda,
config, feeds, notes, scratch, calendar, ledger, and others.  Each
entry opens the corresponding file or buffer with a single keystroke.

The command @code{files-extras-packages-dispatch} presents a transient menu
for opening personal Elpaca-managed package files, organized into
``Tlon'' and ``Personal'' groups.  It is accessible from the main dispatch
menu via the @samp{p} key.

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

@menu
* Buffer information::
* File operations::
* Mode and buffer switching::
* Package management::
* Process support::
* Trash and auto-save support::
@end menu

@node Buffer information
@section Buffer information

@findex files-extras-get-alternate-buffer
@findex files-extras-get-stem-of-current-buffer
@findex files-extras-buffer-file-name
@findex files-extras-open-buffer-files
@findex files-extras-bollp
The function @code{files-extras-get-alternate-buffer} returns the most
recently used buffer in the current window, respecting the frame's
@code{buffer-predicate}.  It is used internally by
@code{files-extras-switch-to-alternate-buffer} (@ref{Switching buffers}).

The function @code{files-extras-get-stem-of-current-buffer} returns the base
name (without extension or directory) of the current buffer's file.

The function @code{files-extras-buffer-file-name} returns the file name of
the current buffer, adjusting paths that go through the @samp{git-dirs}
directory structure to point to their canonical locations.

The function @code{files-extras-open-buffer-files} returns a list of all
@samp{.org} files currently open in Emacs buffers.

The function @code{files-extras-bollp} returns @code{t} if point is at the
beginning of the last line in the buffer.

@node File operations
@section File operations

@findex files-extras-read-file
@findex files-extras-newest-file
@findex files-extras-lines-to-list
@findex files-extras-list-to-lines
@findex files-extras-get-help-file
@findex files-extras-get-nth-directory
@findex files-extras-get-current-dir-lowercased
The function @code{files-extras-read-file} prompts for a file path with a
context-aware default: the file at point in Dired, the current buffer's
file, or an explicit FILE argument.

The function @code{files-extras-newest-file} returns the path of the most
recently modified file in a directory, excluding @samp{.DS_Store} and
@samp{.localized} files (common macOS clutter).

The function @code{files-extras-lines-to-list} reads a file and returns its
lines as a list of strings.  The function @code{files-extras-list-to-lines}
performs the inverse operation, writing a list to a file with one element
per line.

The function @code{files-extras-get-help-file} searches for a documentation
file (@samp{.org} or @samp{.md}) corresponding to the given source file, looking
in @samp{doc/} and @samp{docs/} subdirectories.

The function @code{files-extras-get-nth-directory} extracts the Nth path
component from a directory path.

The function @code{files-extras-get-current-dir-lowercased} returns the base
name of the current directory, lowercased, with hyphens replaced by
underscores.

@node Mode and buffer switching
@section Mode and buffer switching

@findex files-extras-switch-to-most-recent-buffer-in-mode
The function @code{files-extras-switch-to-most-recent-buffer-in-mode}
switches to the most recently used buffer whose major mode derives from
the given MODE@.

@node Package management
@section Package management

@findex files-extras-open-elpaca-package
@findex files-extras-open-extras-package
The function @code{files-extras-open-elpaca-package} opens the main Elisp
file for a named Elpaca-managed package by constructing the path within
the Elpaca repos directory.

The function @code{files-extras-open-extras-package} prompts (with
completion) for a file in the @samp{emacs/extras/} directory and opens it.
It is used by the @code{files-extras-dispatch} menu.

@node Process support
@section Process support

@findex files-extras-ocr-pdf-process-filter
The function @code{files-extras-ocr-pdf-process-filter} is a process filter
for @samp{ocrmypdf} output.  It translates raw process output into
human-readable status messages and suppresses duplicates.  For example,
it informs the user when OCR has already been performed and a prefix
argument is needed to force re-processing.

@node Trash and auto-save support
@section Trash and auto-save support

@findex files-extras-system-move-file-to-trash
@findex files-extras-bury-scratch-buffer
@findex files-extras-auto-save-alert
@findex files-extras-make-hashed-auto-save-file-name-a
@findex files-extras-make-hashed-backup-file-name-a
The function @code{files-extras-system-move-file-to-trash} overrides
@code{system-move-file-to-trash} (via @samp{:override} advice) to use the
external @samp{trash} utility on macOS@.  This preserves Finder's ``Put Back''
functionality, which the default Emacs trash implementation does not
support.

The function @code{files-extras-bury-scratch-buffer} is added to
@code{kill-buffer-query-functions}.  It intercepts attempts to kill the
@samp{*scratch*} buffer and buries it instead, returning @code{nil} to prevent the
kill.

The function @code{files-extras-auto-save-alert} is added to
@code{find-file-hook}.  When auto-save data is newer than the visited file,
it triggers a high-severity alert (via the @samp{alert} package) to ensure
the notification is not missed.

The function @code{files-extras-make-hashed-auto-save-file-name-a} advises
@code{make-auto-save-file-name} (@samp{:around}) to hash the buffer file name,
preventing excessively long auto-save file paths.  Similarly,
@code{files-extras-make-hashed-backup-file-name-a} advises
@code{make-backup-file-name-1} to hash backup file names in directories
specified by @code{backup-directory-alist}.

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
