\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename forge-extras.info
@settitle forge-extras: Extensions for forge
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* Forge Extras: (forge-extras). Extensions for forge.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title forge-extras: Extensions for forge
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top forge-extras: Extensions for forge

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{forge-extras.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* User options::
* Commands::
* GitHub Project integration::
* Functions::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

User options

* Project owner and number::
* Project Node ID::
* Status field Node ID::
* Estimate field Node ID::
* Status option IDs alist::
* Issue link state::
* Debug flag::

Commands

* Storing Org links for commits and topics::
* Browsing the GitHub notification inbox::
* Toggling issue or pull request state::
* Pulling notifications::
* Notification and read-status synchronization::
* Tracking repositories::
* Navigating messages in a topic buffer::
* Copying a message body::
* Inserting Markdown links to GitHub issues::

GitHub Project integration

* Setting up GitHub Project integration::
* Setting project status::
* Setting project estimates::
* Discovering project IDs::
* Listing project items::

Discovering project IDs

* Getting project field IDs::
* Discovering status options::
* Looking up a single status option ID::

Listing project items

* Listing items for a specific repository::
* Listing all project items::

Functions

* Repository tracking::
* GraphQL API functions::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{forge-extras.el} extends @samp{forge}, the Emacs package that integrates Git
forges (GitHub, GitLab, and others) into Magit.  While @samp{forge} handles
the fundamentals---pulling topics, viewing issues and pull requests,
posting comments---@samp{forge-extras.el} adds higher-level workflows on top
of that foundation.

The package addresses two broad areas:

@itemize
@item
@strong{Everyday issue and notification management.}  Commands for toggling
issue state, navigating between posts in a topic buffer, copying
message bodies, storing Org links for selected commits, tracking new
repositories in the Forge database, and keeping notification read
status in sync between Emacs and GitHub via the REST API
(@ref{Notification and read-status synchronization}).

@item
@strong{GitHub Projects v2 integration.}  A suite of commands that interact
with the GitHub GraphQL API through the @samp{gh} command-line tool,
allowing you to set project status and estimates, list project items in
board order, discover field and option Node IDs, and insert Markdown
links to issues---all without leaving Emacs (@ref{GitHub Project integration}).
@end itemize

The package requires @samp{forge} (version 0.3.1 or later) and @samp{shut-up}.
The GitHub Project features additionally require the @samp{gh} CLI to be
installed and authenticated.

@node User options
@chapter User options

All user options belong to the @code{forge-extras} customization group.  Most
of them configure the GitHub Projects v2 integration; see
@ref{Setting up GitHub Project integration} for a
guided walkthrough.

@menu
* Project owner and number::
* Project Node ID::
* Status field Node ID::
* Estimate field Node ID::
* Status option IDs alist::
* Issue link state::
* Debug flag::
@end menu

@node Project owner and number
@section Project owner and number

@vindex forge-extras-project-owner
@vindex forge-extras-project-number
The user option @code{forge-extras-project-owner} specifies the GitHub owner
(organization or user name) that owns the target project.  Its type is a
string and its default value is @code{nil}.

The user option @code{forge-extras-project-number} specifies the project
number (the integer visible in the project's URL).  Its type is an
integer and its default value is @code{nil}.

These two options are used by @code{forge-extras-gh-get-issue-fields} to
construct the GraphQL query that retrieves project data for a given
issue.  You must set both before using any of the project-related
commands (@ref{GitHub Project integration}).

@node Project Node ID
@section Project Node ID

@vindex forge-extras-project-node-id
The user option @code{forge-extras-project-node-id} holds the global Relay
Node ID of the target GitHub Project.  Its type is a string and its
default value is @code{nil}.

This is the primary identifier used by most project commands.  See
@ref{Setting up GitHub Project integration} for
instructions on how to obtain it.

@node Status field Node ID
@section Status field Node ID

@vindex forge-extras-status-field-node-id
The user option @code{forge-extras-status-field-node-id} stores the global
Relay Node ID of the ``Status'' single-select field in the target project.
Its type is a string and its default value is @code{nil}.

This ID is required by @code{forge-extras-set-project-status}
(@ref{Setting project status}) and by the discovery
commands that inspect status options (@ref{Discovering project IDs}).
Use @code{forge-extras-get-project-field-ids} to find the correct value
(@ref{Getting project field IDs}).

@node Estimate field Node ID
@section Estimate field Node ID

@vindex forge-extras-estimate-field-node-id
The user option @code{forge-extras-estimate-field-node-id} stores the global
Relay Node ID of the ``Estimate'' numeric field in the target project.
Its type is a string and its default value is @code{nil}.

This ID is required by @code{forge-extras-set-project-estimate}
(@ref{Setting project estimates}).  Use
@code{forge-extras-get-project-field-ids} to find the correct value
(@ref{Getting project field IDs}).

@node Status option IDs alist
@section Status option IDs alist

@vindex forge-extras-status-option-ids-alist
The user option @code{forge-extras-status-option-ids-alist} maps
human-readable status names (such as ``Todo'', ``In Progress'', ``Done'') to
their corresponding GraphQL Option IDs for the ``Status'' single-select
field.  Its type is an alist mapping strings to strings, and its default
value is @code{nil}.

When @code{forge-extras-set-project-status} prompts you for a status, the
completion candidates come from the keys of this alist.  You can
populate it manually or use the output of
@code{forge-extras-discover-project-status-options}
(@ref{Discovering status options}), which
formats the data for easy insertion into your configuration.

@node Issue link state
@section Issue link state

@vindex forge-extras-issue-link-state
The user option @code{forge-extras-issue-link-state} controls which issues
@code{forge-extras-insert-issue-markdown-link} retrieves from GitHub.  Its
type is a choice among the strings @code{"open"}, @code{"closed"}, and @code{"all"}.
The default value is @code{"open"}.

If you frequently need to reference closed issues, change this to
@code{"all"}.  The value is passed directly to @samp{gh issue list --state}.

@node Debug flag
@section Debug flag

@vindex forge-extras-debug
The variable @code{forge-extras-debug}, when set to a non-nil value, enables
verbose debugging messages throughout @samp{forge-extras.el}.  These messages
are emitted via @code{forge-extras-message-debug} and appear in the
@samp{*Messages*} buffer.  The default value is @code{nil}.

This is a plain @code{defvar}, not a @code{defcustom}, so set it in your
configuration or toggle it interactively with @samp{M-: (setq
forge-extras-debug t)}.  It is useful for diagnosing failures in the
GraphQL API calls used by the project integration features
(@ref{GitHub Project integration}).

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Storing Org links for commits and topics::
* Browsing the GitHub notification inbox::
* Toggling issue or pull request state::
* Pulling notifications::
* Notification and read-status synchronization::
* Tracking repositories::
* Navigating messages in a topic buffer::
* Copying a message body::
* Inserting Markdown links to GitHub issues::
@end menu

@node Storing Org links for commits and topics
@section Storing Org links for commits and topics

@findex forge-extras-orgit-store-link
A common workflow when writing notes or documentation is to link back to
specific commits or forge topics.  The command
@code{forge-extras-orgit-store-link} extends the standard @code{org-store-link} to
handle two Magit/Forge contexts:

@itemize
@item
When multiple commit sections are selected in a Magit log or status
buffer (via the region), it iterates through each selected commit and
stores an Org link for every one of them.  This is useful when you
want to reference a range of commits without invoking @code{org-store-link}
repeatedly.

@item
When there is no active region of commit sections, the command
determines whether point is on a pull request or an issue.  It visits
the corresponding topic buffer and stores a link from there, so you
get a properly formatted orgit link even when invoked from the topic
list.
@end itemize

@node Browsing the GitHub notification inbox
@section Browsing the GitHub notification inbox

@findex forge-extras-browse-github-inbox
The command @code{forge-extras-browse-github-inbox} opens the GitHub
notifications page in your default browser.  It is a thin wrapper around
@code{browse-url} and is handy as a quick escape hatch when you want to
triage notifications in the web interface rather than in Forge.

@node Toggling issue or pull request state
@section Toggling issue or pull request state

@findex forge-extras-state-set-dwim
The command @code{forge-extras-state-set-dwim} provides a single key binding
that toggles the state of the current topic: if the issue or pull
request is open, it closes it (setting the state to @code{completed}); if it
is already completed, it reopens it (setting the state to @code{open}).

The command operates on the topic at point or, if none is found, the
topic associated with the current buffer.  You can also pass an ISSUE
argument programmatically.

@node Pulling notifications
@section Pulling notifications

@findex forge-extras-pull-notifications
The command @code{forge-extras-pull-notifications} calls
@code{forge-pull-notifications} silently, suppressing all output via
@samp{shut-up} and @samp{with-no-warnings}.  It also guards against running when
an Elfeed update is in progress (detected via
@code{elfeed-extras-auto-update-in-process}), because concurrent database
access was found to cause problems.

This command is primarily intended for use in timers or hooks (for
example, to refresh notifications periodically in the background) rather
than direct interactive invocation.

@node Notification and read-status synchronization
@section Notification and read-status synchronization

@findex forge-extras-sync-read-status
When you visit a topic in Forge, GitHub may still show it as unread
because Forge only updates local notification state, not GitHub's.  The
function @code{forge-extras-sync-read-status} bridges this gap by calling the
GitHub REST API (@code{PATCH /notifications/threads/@{thread-id@}}) to mark
the notification thread as read.

The function only acts when the topic at point has an @code{unread} status in
Forge.  It looks up the corresponding @code{forge-notification} object to
obtain the GitHub thread ID, then issues the API call asynchronously
via @code{forge--rest}.  On success, it refreshes the notification count in
Doom Modeline (if @code{doom-modeline-github} is enabled).

@findex forge-extras-sync-unread-from-github
The complementary function @code{forge-extras-sync-unread-from-github}
handles the reverse direction: it ensures that notifications marked as
unread on GitHub's web interface are also shown as unread in Forge.
This is needed because marking a notification as unread on GitHub does
not update its @code{updated_at} timestamp, so Forge's incremental pull
(which uses a @code{since} filter based on that timestamp) skips those
notifications entirely.

The function is installed as @code{:after} advice on
@code{forge--ghub-update-notifications}, so it runs automatically at the end
of every @code{forge-pull-notifications} call.  It queries the GitHub REST
API for currently-unread notifications via the @samp{gh} CLI, then sets the
local topic status to @code{unread} for any that Forge missed.

@node Tracking repositories
@section Tracking repositories

@findex forge-extras-track-repository
When you clone a new repository or want Forge to know about one that
predates your Forge setup, the command @code{forge-extras-track-repository}
adds a directory's Git repository to the Forge database.  It accepts an
optional DIR argument (defaulting to @code{default-directory}), verifies that
the directory is a Git repository (using @code{vc-extras-is-git-dir-p} from
@samp{vc-extras.el}), retrieves the remote URL, inserts the repository into
the Forge database with @code{forge-get-repository} using the @samp{:insert!}
keyword, pulls all topics via @code{forge--pull}, and opens a Magit status
buffer for the directory.

If you have a URL or local path rather than a directory with an
existing checkout, the supporting function
@code{forge-extras-track-repo-all-topics} handles the lower-level logic of
resolving URLs and pulling topics.

@node Navigating messages in a topic buffer
@section Navigating messages in a topic buffer

@findex forge-next-message
@findex forge-previous-message
When reading a long discussion thread in a Forge topic buffer, it is
convenient to jump between posts without scrolling.  The command
@code{forge-next-message} moves point to the start of the next post section,
and @code{forge-previous-message} moves to the previous one.

If point is not currently on a post section, @code{forge-next-message} jumps
to the first post and @code{forge-previous-message} jumps to the last.  When
there is no further post in the requested direction, a message is
displayed in the echo area.

Both commands delegate to the internal function @code{forge--goto-message},
which navigates by inspecting Magit section siblings of type @code{post}.

@node Copying a message body
@section Copying a message body

@findex forge-extras-copy-message-at-point-as-kill
The command @code{forge-extras-copy-message-at-point-as-kill} copies the body
of the Forge post at point to the kill ring, preserving its original
formatting.  This is useful when you want to quote or reuse a comment
from a GitHub discussion in another context, such as an email or an Org
document.

@node Inserting Markdown links to GitHub issues
@section Inserting Markdown links to GitHub issues

@findex forge-extras-insert-issue-markdown-link
The command @code{forge-extras-insert-issue-markdown-link} fetches issues from
one or more GitHub repositories, presents them in a completing-read
prompt, and inserts a Markdown-formatted link at point.  This is
particularly useful when writing commit messages, pull request
descriptions, or documentation that needs to reference specific issues.

When called interactively, the command prompts for repositories as a
space- or comma-separated list of @samp{"owner/repo"} strings.  It then calls
the @samp{gh} CLI to fetch issues whose state matches
@code{forge-extras-issue-link-state} (@ref{Issue link state}),
up to 300 per repository.

The completion candidates are displayed as @samp{"owner/repo #NUMBER: TITLE"},
sorted by repository name (ascending) and then by issue number
(descending, so the most recent issues appear first within each
repository).  Upon selection, a Markdown link of the form
@samp{[owner/repo#NUMBER](URL)} is inserted at point.

@findex forge-extras-test-fetch-issues
The companion command @code{forge-extras-test-fetch-issues} is a debugging
aid.  It fetches issues for a single repository and echoes the count,
helping you verify that the @samp{gh} CLI is authenticated and working.

@node GitHub Project integration
@chapter GitHub Project integration

The GitHub Projects v2 features in @samp{forge-extras.el} let you manage
project board metadata---status, estimates, and item listings---directly
from Emacs.  All of these commands communicate with the GitHub GraphQL
API by shelling out to the @samp{gh} CLI, which must be installed and
authenticated.

@menu
* Setting up GitHub Project integration::
* Setting project status::
* Setting project estimates::
* Discovering project IDs::
* Listing project items::
@end menu

@node Setting up GitHub Project integration
@section Setting up GitHub Project integration

Before you can use any of the project commands, several user options need
to be configured.  The process involves discovering various Node IDs from
GitHub's GraphQL API:

@enumerate
@item
@strong{Set the project owner and number.}  Configure
@code{forge-extras-project-owner} (@ref{Project owner and number})
with the organization or user name, and @code{forge-extras-project-number}
with the integer from the project URL@.

@item
@strong{Obtain the project Node ID@.}  Use the @samp{gh} CLI:
@example
# For an organization-owned project:
gh api graphql -f query='query@{organization(login:"YOUR_ORG")@{projectV2(number:NUMBER)@{id@}@}@}'

# For a user-owned project:
gh api graphql -f query='query@{user(login:"YOUR_USER")@{projectV2(number:NUMBER)@{id@}@}@}'
@end example
Set @code{forge-extras-project-node-id} (@ref{Project Node ID})
to the returned ID string.

@item
@strong{Discover field Node IDs.}  Run @samp{M-x forge-extras-get-project-field-ids}
(@ref{Getting project field IDs}).
From the resulting buffer, copy the Node IDs for the ``Status'' and
``Estimate'' fields into @code{forge-extras-status-field-node-id}
(@ref{Status field Node ID}) and
@code{forge-extras-estimate-field-node-id}
(@ref{Estimate field Node ID}).

@item
@strong{Discover status option IDs.}  Run @samp{M-x forge-extras-discover-project-status-options}
(@ref{Discovering status options}).
The output buffer contains an alist ready for insertion into your
configuration as the value of @code{forge-extras-status-option-ids-alist}
(@ref{Status option IDs alist}).
@end enumerate

@node Setting project status
@section Setting project status

@findex forge-extras-set-project-status
The command @code{forge-extras-set-project-status} sets the ``Status''
single-select field for the current topic within the configured GitHub
Project.  When called interactively, it defaults ISSUE to
@code{forge-current-topic} and prompts for a status from the keys of
@code{forge-extras-status-option-ids-alist}
(@ref{Status option IDs alist}).  The current
project status of the issue is offered as the default in the prompt.

If the issue is not yet a member of the target project, the command
automatically adds it before setting the status.  After a successful
update, if you are in a @code{forge-topic-mode} buffer, the buffer is
refreshed to reflect the change.

You can also call this command programmatically with explicit ISSUE and
STATUS arguments, bypassing the prompt.

@node Setting project estimates
@section Setting project estimates

@findex forge-extras-set-project-estimate
The command @code{forge-extras-set-project-estimate} sets a numeric estimate
(story points, hours, or whatever your project uses) for the current
topic within the configured GitHub Project.  It reads the current
estimate from the project data and offers it as the default when
prompting.

Like @code{forge-extras-set-project-status}
(@ref{Setting project status}), this command
automatically adds the issue to the project if it is not already present.
It requires @code{forge-extras-estimate-field-node-id}
(@ref{Estimate field Node ID}) to be configured.

@node Discovering project IDs
@section Discovering project IDs

@menu
* Getting project field IDs::
* Discovering status options::
* Looking up a single status option ID::
@end menu

@node Getting project field IDs
@subsection Getting project field IDs

@findex forge-extras-get-project-field-ids
The command @code{forge-extras-get-project-field-ids} queries the GitHub
GraphQL API for all fields defined in the project identified by
@code{forge-extras-project-node-id} and displays their names and Node IDs in
a formatted buffer named @samp{*GitHub Project Fields*}.

This is the primary tool for populating
@code{forge-extras-status-field-node-id}
(@ref{Status field Node ID}) and
@code{forge-extras-estimate-field-node-id}
(@ref{Estimate field Node ID}).

@node Discovering status options
@subsection Discovering status options

@findex forge-extras-discover-project-status-options
The command @code{forge-extras-discover-project-status-options} fetches all
available option names and Node IDs for the ``Status'' single-select field
configured via @code{forge-extras-status-field-node-id}.  The results are
displayed in a @samp{*GitHub Project Status Options*} buffer, formatted as an
alist that you can copy directly into your configuration for
@code{forge-extras-status-option-ids-alist}
(@ref{Status option IDs alist}).

Both @code{forge-extras-project-node-id} and @code{forge-extras-status-field-node-id}
must be set before running this command.

@node Looking up a single status option ID
@subsection Looking up a single status option ID

@findex forge-extras-get-project-status-option-id
If you already know the name of a status option (for example, ``Waiting'')
and need its Node ID, the command
@code{forge-extras-get-project-status-option-id} provides a shortcut.  It
prompts for the status name, fetches all options for the configured
status field, and displays the matching Option ID in the echo area.  The
search is case-insensitive.

If no match is found, the error message lists all available option names
so you can correct a typo.

@node Listing project items
@section Listing project items

@menu
* Listing items for a specific repository::
* Listing all project items::
@end menu

@node Listing items for a specific repository
@subsection Listing items for a specific repository

@findex forge-extras-list-project-issues-by-repo-ordered
The command @code{forge-extras-list-project-issues-by-repo-ordered} fetches
issues and pull requests from a single repository within the configured
project and displays them in the order they appear on the project board.
It prompts for the repository in @samp{"owner/repo"} format and shows the
results in a @samp{*Project Issues for owner/repo*} buffer.

This command includes both open and closed items and returns the list of
item plists for programmatic use.

@node Listing all project items
@subsection Listing all project items

@findex forge-extras-list-project-items-ordered
The command @code{forge-extras-list-project-items-ordered} fetches all issues
and pull requests across every repository in the configured project,
handling pagination automatically.  Items are returned in project board
order.

The command's behavior depends on whether a prefix argument is provided:

@itemize
@item
@strong{Without a prefix argument:} closed and merged items are excluded, and
results are displayed in a @samp{*All Project Items (Ordered by Board)*}
buffer.
@item
@strong{With a prefix argument} (@samp{C-u}): closed and merged items are included,
and the results buffer is not displayed.  This is useful for
populating the cache programmatically.
@end itemize

Programmatic callers can pass a third argument USE-CACHE-P@.  When
non-nil and the cache variable @code{forge-extras--cached-project-items} is
populated, the cached data is returned immediately without a network
request.  Note that in this case, the INCLUDE-CLOSED-P argument does not
re-filter the cached items---it only applies when fresh data is fetched.

The fetched (or cached) items are always stored in
@code{forge-extras--cached-project-items} for subsequent use.

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

This section documents public non-interactive functions that are useful
for customization, hooks, or extending the package.

@menu
* Repository tracking::
* GraphQL API functions::
@end menu

@node Repository tracking
@section Repository tracking

@findex forge-extras-track-repo-all-topics
The function @code{forge-extras-track-repo-all-topics} is the workhorse
behind @code{forge-extras-track-repository}
(@ref{Tracking repositories}).  It accepts a URL or
local path, resolves it to a repository, inserts it into the Forge
database, and pulls all topics.  You can call it directly when you have a
URL rather than a local directory.

@node GraphQL API functions
@section GraphQL API functions

@findex forge-extras-gh-get-issue-fields
@findex forge-extras-gh-parse-issue-fields
@findex forge-extras-gh-get-project-fields
@findex forge-extras-gh-parse-project-fields
@findex forge-extras-gh-add-issue-to-project
@findex forge-extras-gh-update-project-item-status-field
@findex forge-extras-gh-update-project-item-estimate-field
The GitHub Project integration is built on several public functions that
wrap the GraphQL API@.  These can be useful if you want to build custom
workflows:

@itemize
@item
@code{forge-extras-gh-get-issue-fields} fetches raw project field data for
a given ISSUE-NUMBER and REPO-NAME@.
@item
@code{forge-extras-gh-parse-issue-fields} parses that raw data into a
property list with keys like @code{:issue-node-id}, @code{:status}, @code{:effort},
@code{:project-item-id}, and more.
@item
@code{forge-extras-gh-get-project-fields} fetches all field definitions for
a given PROJECT-NODE-ID@.
@item
@code{forge-extras-gh-parse-project-fields} parses the result into a list
of @samp{(NAME . ID)} cons cells.
@item
@code{forge-extras-gh-add-issue-to-project} adds an issue to a project and
returns the new project item Node ID@.
@item
@code{forge-extras-gh-update-project-item-status-field} updates a
single-select field (typically ``Status'') on a project item.
@item
@code{forge-extras-gh-update-project-item-estimate-field} updates a numeric
field (typically ``Estimate'') on a project item.
@end itemize

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
