\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename jinx-extras.info
@settitle jinx-extras: Extensions for Jinx
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* Jinx Extras: (jinx-extras). Extensions for Jinx.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title jinx-extras: Extensions for Jinx
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top jinx-extras: Extensions for Jinx

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{jinx-extras.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* Commands::
* Enhanced functionality::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Commands

* Toggling languages::

Enhanced functionality

* Abbreviation learning::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{jinx-extras.el} extends the @samp{jinx} package, a fast spell-checking
framework that uses external checkers such as Hunspell or Aspell.
While Jinx handles detection and correction of misspellings, this
extension adds two conveniences that the base package does not provide:

@itemize
@item
@strong{Abbreviation learning}: every time you correct a misspelling
through Jinx, the typo/correction pair is saved as a
@code{text-mode-abbrev-table} entry so that Emacs will auto-correct the
same typo in the future (@ref{Abbreviation learning}).
@item
@strong{Language toggling}: a single command to switch Jinx between English
and Spanish, useful for bilingual writers
(@ref{Toggling languages}).
@end itemize

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Toggling languages::
@end menu

@node Toggling languages
@section Toggling languages

@findex jinx-extras-toggle-languages
If you regularly write in two languages, switching Jinx's dictionary
each time can be tedious.  The command @code{jinx-extras-toggle-languages}
checks the current value of @code{jinx-languages}: if it is @samp{"en"}, the
command switches to @samp{"es"} (Spanish), and vice versa.  It calls the
standard @code{jinx-languages} function to apply the change so that the
buffer is re-checked immediately.

This command assumes a bilingual English/Spanish workflow.  If you work
with different languages, you would need to adjust the toggle targets
in the source.

@node Enhanced functionality
@chapter Enhanced functionality

@menu
* Abbreviation learning::
@end menu

@node Abbreviation learning
@section Abbreviation learning

When you correct a misspelled word through Jinx's correction
interface, @samp{jinx-extras.el} automatically defines an abbreviation in
@code{text-mode-abbrev-table} mapping the misspelled word to its
correction.  From that point on, typing the same misspelling in any
@code{text-mode}-derived buffer triggers automatic expansion to the correct
word (provided @code{abbrev-mode} is active).

This is implemented via @samp{:before} advice on the internal Jinx
function @code{jinx--correct-replace}.  The advice extracts the original
misspelled text from the Jinx overlay, pairs it with the selected
correction, and calls @code{define-abbrev}.  A confirmation message is
displayed in the echo area for each new abbreviation.

Over time this builds a personalized typo-correction dictionary that
speeds up writing without any manual configuration.

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
