\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename ledger-mode-extras.info
@settitle ledger-mode-extras: Extensions for ledger-mode
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* Ledger Mode Extras: (ledger-mode-extras). Extensions for ledger-mode.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title ledger-mode-extras: Extensions for ledger-mode
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top ledger-mode-extras: Extensions for ledger-mode

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{ledger-mode-extras.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* User options::
* Commands::
* Functions::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

User options

* @code{ledger-mode-extras-currencies}::

Commands

* Importing transactions::
* Navigation and editing::
* Date manipulation::
* Reporting::
* Price updates::
* Sorting::

Functions

* Transaction insertion::
* Date conversion::
* Core helpers::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{ledger-mode-extras.el} extends @samp{ledger-mode}, the Emacs major mode
for editing plain-text accounting files compatible with the Ledger
command-line tool.  The stock mode covers basic editing and reporting,
but leaves several common workflows---importing transactions from
brokerages, adjusting transaction dates, sorting in reverse
chronological order, and fetching commodity prices---to the user.
This package fills those gaps.

The extensions are organized around six workflows:

@itemize
@item
@strong{Importing transactions} from CSV exports (Polymarket, Interactive
Brokers) and from the system clipboard (Wise Airbnb payouts)
(@ref{Importing transactions}).
@item
@strong{Navigation and editing}: creating entries, aligning amounts,
copying or killing transactions, and narrowing to a single
transaction (@ref{Navigation and editing}).
@item
@strong{Date manipulation}: incrementing or decrementing the date of the
transaction at point (@ref{Date manipulation}).
@item
@strong{Reports}: running common Ledger reports with a single command
(@ref{Reporting}).
@item
@strong{Price updates}: fetching commodity and cryptocurrency prices via
external Python scripts (@ref{Price updates}).
@item
@strong{Sorting}: sorting transactions chronologically or reverse-
chronologically, for a region or the whole buffer
(@ref{Sorting}).
@end itemize

The package depends on @samp{ledger-mode} and @samp{paths} (for file path
variables such as @code{paths-file-ledger} and @code{paths-dir-ledger}).

@node User options
@chapter User options

@menu
* @code{ledger-mode-extras-currencies}::
@end menu

@node @code{ledger-mode-extras-currencies}
@section @code{ledger-mode-extras-currencies}

@vindex ledger-mode-extras-currencies
The user option @code{ledger-mode-extras-currencies} is a list of currency
symbols (strings) for which price information should be fetched.  This
list is consumed by the external Python scripts invoked by the price
update commands (@ref{Price updates}).  The type is a list of strings.  The
default value is an empty list.

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Importing transactions::
* Navigation and editing::
* Date manipulation::
* Reporting::
* Price updates::
* Sorting::
@end menu

@node Importing transactions
@section Importing transactions

@findex ledger-extras-import-polymarket
The command @code{ledger-extras-import-polymarket} reads a CSV file exported
from Polymarket's transaction history and inserts the corresponding
Ledger transactions at the end of the ledger file.  It prompts for the
CSV file path (defaulting to the downloads directory) and, for each
new token encountered, asks for a short symbol to use in the ledger.
Only ``Buy'' and ``Sell'' rows are processed; other transaction types
signal an error.

@strong{Note:} as of early 2025 the Polymarket export functionality appears
broken.  The docstring recommends recording balance changes as capital
gains instead.

@findex ledger-extras-import-interactive-brokers
The command @code{ledger-extras-import-interactive-brokers} reads a CSV file
exported from Interactive Brokers' Flex Queries (trade history) and
inserts the corresponding Ledger transactions.  IBKR dates are in
@samp{YYYYMMDD} format and are converted to @samp{YYYY-MM-DD}.  The CSV may
contain summary lines that aggregate multiple trades into one row;
these must be removed manually before import.

@findex ledger-mode-extras-import-wise-clipboard-airbnb
The command @code{ledger-mode-extras-import-wise-clipboard-airbnb} imports
Airbnb payout transactions from the system clipboard.  The expected
clipboard format is the text you get by selecting and copying
transactions on the Wise website.  The command parses the clipboard
for amount lines (@samp{+ NNN.NN USD}) and their nearest preceding full
date lines (@samp{DD Month YYYY}), then inserts a Ledger transaction for
each positive amount.  Negative amounts are silently skipped.

A typical clipboard block looks like:

@example
16 January
Completed
16 January 2026
AIRBNB 4977
+ 200.79 USD
@end example

The command reports how many transactions were inserted and how many
negative amounts were skipped.

@node Navigation and editing
@section Navigation and editing

@findex ledger-mode-extras-new-entry-below
The command @code{ledger-mode-extras-new-entry-below} positions point below
the current transaction, ready for typing a new entry.  It aligns the
current line, moves to the next transaction, and opens a line above
it (via @code{crux-smart-open-line-above}).

@findex ledger-mode-extras-align-and-next
The command @code{ledger-mode-extras-align-and-next} aligns the amounts in
the current transaction using @code{ledger-post-align-xact} and then
advances point to the beginning of the next transaction or directive.
This is useful as a ``save and move on'' action during data entry.

@findex ledger-mode-extras-kill-transaction-at-point
@findex ledger-mode-extras-copy-transaction-at-point
The commands @code{ledger-mode-extras-kill-transaction-at-point} and
@code{ledger-mode-extras-copy-transaction-at-point} kill (cut) or copy the
entire transaction at point to the kill ring, respectively.  Both
delegate to @code{ledger-mode-extras-copy-or-kill-transaction-at-point}.

@findex ledger-mode-extras-narrow-to-xact
The command @code{ledger-mode-extras-narrow-to-xact} narrows the buffer to
show only the current transaction.  Use @samp{C-x n w} (@code{widen}) to
restore the full view.  This is helpful when you want to focus on a
single transaction without visual clutter.

@node Date manipulation
@section Date manipulation

@findex ledger-mode-extras-increase-date-by-one-day
@findex ledger-mode-extras-decrease-date-by-one-day
When a transaction was recorded on the wrong date, the commands
@code{ledger-mode-extras-increase-date-by-one-day} and
@code{ledger-mode-extras-decrease-date-by-one-day} adjust the date of the
transaction at point by plus or minus one day.  They temporarily
narrow to the transaction, parse the existing date, compute the new
date, and replace it in place.  Both commands delegate to
@code{ledger-mode-extras-increase-date}, which accepts an arbitrary number
of days.

@node Reporting
@section Reporting

@findex ledger-mode-extras-report-account
@findex ledger-mode-extras-report-net-worth
@findex ledger-mode-extras-report-net-worth-USD
These commands run named reports from @code{ledger-reports} without
requiring you to navigate the report menu:

@itemize
@item
@code{ledger-mode-extras-report-account} runs the @samp{"account"} report.
@item
@code{ledger-mode-extras-report-net-worth} runs the @samp{"net worth"} report.
@item
@code{ledger-mode-extras-report-net-worth-USD} runs the @samp{"net worth (USD)"}
report.
@end itemize

Each calls @code{ledger-report} with the appropriate report name.

@node Price updates
@section Price updates

@findex ledger-mode-extras-update-commodities
The command @code{ledger-mode-extras-update-commodities} runs the external
Python script @samp{commodities.py} (located in @code{paths-dir-ledger})
asynchronously.  This script fetches current prices for the
commodities tracked in your ledger.

@findex ledger-mode-extras-update-coin-prices
The command @code{ledger-mode-extras-update-coin-prices} runs the external
Python script @samp{coinprices.py} (located in
@samp{paths-dir-ledger/coinprices/}) asynchronously and appends its output
to the price database file (@code{paths-file-ledger-db}).

@node Sorting
@section Sorting

@findex ledger-mode-extras-sort-region-or-buffer
@findex ledger-mode-extras-sort-region-or-buffer-reversed
The commands @code{ledger-mode-extras-sort-region-or-buffer} and
@code{ledger-mode-extras-sort-region-or-buffer-reversed} are the primary
sorting entry points.  If a region is active, they sort the
transactions within it; otherwise they sort the entire buffer.  The
first sorts in chronological order (oldest first, delegating to
@code{ledger-sort-region} or @code{ledger-sort-buffer}); the second sorts in
reverse chronological order (newest first).

@findex ledger-mode-extras-sort-region-reversed
@findex ledger-mode-extras-sort-buffer-reversed
The lower-level commands @code{ledger-mode-extras-sort-region-reversed} and
@code{ledger-mode-extras-sort-buffer-reversed} perform reverse-chronological
sorting on an explicit region or the whole buffer, respectively.  They
are called by the ``or-buffer'' variants above and can also be used
directly.

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

@menu
* Transaction insertion::
* Date conversion::
* Core helpers::
@end menu

@node Transaction insertion
@section Transaction insertion

@findex ledger-mode-extras-insert-transaction
The function @code{ledger-mode-extras-insert-transaction} takes a list of
FIELDS (payee, date, account, quantity, token-symbol, price, and
optional fees) and appends a formatted Ledger transaction to FILE
(defaulting to @code{paths-file-ledger}).  After inserting the transaction
lines it calls @code{ledger-mode-extras-align-and-next}
(@ref{Navigation and editing}) to align the amounts.  This function is
used by the import commands (@ref{Importing transactions}).

@node Date conversion
@section Date conversion

@findex ledger-extras-convert-interactive-brokers-date
The function @code{ledger-extras-convert-interactive-brokers-date} converts
an Interactive Brokers date string in @samp{YYYYMMDD} format to the
standard @samp{YYYY-MM-DD} format used in Ledger files.

@node Core helpers
@section Core helpers

@findex ledger-mode-extras-copy-or-kill-transaction-at-point
@findex ledger-mode-extras-increase-date
The function @code{ledger-mode-extras-copy-or-kill-transaction-at-point}
is the shared implementation behind the kill and copy commands
(@ref{Navigation and editing}).  It accepts an ACTION argument (@code{copy} or
@code{kill}) and operates on the transaction at point.

The function @code{ledger-mode-extras-increase-date} adjusts the date of
the transaction at point by a given number of DAYS (positive or
negative).  It is used by the one-day increment and decrement commands
(@ref{Date manipulation}).

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
