\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename magit-extra.info
@settitle magit-extra: Extensions for Magit
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* Magit Extra: (magit-extra). Extensions for Magit.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title magit-extra: Extensions for Magit
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top magit-extra: Extensions for Magit

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{magit-extra.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* Commands::
* Repository maintenance::
* Transient suffixes::
* Functions::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Commands

* Stage, commit, and push: Stage commit and push. 
* Tag and submodule checkout::
* Dirty repository detection::
* Dispatch menu::

Repository maintenance

* Asynchronous pull::
* Automatic submodule pull::
* Production branch guard::

Functions

* URL and file helpers::
* Reverting stale buffers::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{magit-extra.el} extends @samp{magit}, the popular Git interface for Emacs, with convenience commands and workflow automation. The package depends on @samp{magit} and @samp{paths}.

The extensions fall into several categories:

@itemize
@item
@strong{Streamlined commit workflows.} Commands that stage, commit, and push in a single step, reducing the friction of routine Git operations (@ref{Stage commit and push, , Stage@comma{} commit@comma{} and push}).
@item
@strong{Repository maintenance.} Batch updates across multiple repositories and automatic submodule management (@ref{Repository maintenance}).
@item
@strong{Safety guards.} Dirty-repository warnings and confirmation prompts before pushing to production branches (@ref{Dirty repository detection}).
@item
@strong{Asynchronous operations.} Background pulling for repositories that need periodic synchronization (@ref{Asynchronous pull}).
@item
@strong{Customized dispatch menu.} A modified Magit dispatch transient that overrides the default, providing a tailored command palette (@ref{Dispatch menu}).
@item
@strong{Submodule transient suffixes.} Additional entries for the Magit submodule transient menu (@ref{Transient suffixes}).
@end itemize

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Stage, commit, and push: Stage commit and push. 
* Tag and submodule checkout::
* Dirty repository detection::
* Dispatch menu::
@end menu

@node Stage commit and push
@section Stage, commit, and push

@findex magit-extras-stage-commit-and-push
The most common Git workflow---stage modifications, write a commit message, and push---typically requires several separate steps in Magit. The command @code{magit-extras-stage-commit-and-push} collapses this into a single action. When called interactively, it first displays the unstaged diff for review, then prompts for a commit message.

The command accepts two optional arguments. When FILE is non-nil, only that file is staged rather than all modified files. When NO-PUSH is non-nil, the push step is skipped, which is useful when you want to batch several commits before pushing. The command is adapted from a workflow by Sacha Chua.

@findex magit-extras-stage-commit-and-push-all-repos
For users who maintain multiple Git repositories, @code{magit-extras-stage-commit-and-push-all-repos} iterates over all directories listed in @code{paths-dir-all-repos} and performs a ``midnight update'' on each one. This is intended for automated, periodic synchronization---for example, from a timer or a shutdown hook. Each repository receives a commit with the message ``Midnight update''.

@findex magit-extras-with-editor-finish-and-push
When composing a commit message in a @samp{with-editor} buffer, you may want to finalize and push immediately. The command @code{magit-extras-with-editor-finish-and-push} calls @code{with-editor-finish} to complete the editing session and then invokes @code{magit-push-current-to-pushremote} to push the new commit.

@node Tag and submodule checkout
@section Tag and submodule checkout

@findex magit-extras-checkout-tag-with-submodules
Projects that use Git submodules often need to check out a specific tag consistently across the main repository and all submodules. The command @code{magit-extras-checkout-tag-with-submodules} prompts for a tag (or the ``main'' branch) via @code{completing-read} and then performs a force checkout.

When ``main'' is selected, the command checks out the @samp{main} branch in every submodule recursively and pulls the latest changes. When a tag is selected, it resets all submodules to match the commit recorded in the superproject and reinitializes them. This distinction ensures that tag checkouts produce a deterministic state while branch checkouts pull the latest upstream changes.

@node Dirty repository detection
@section Dirty repository detection

@findex magit-extras-warn-if-repo-is-dirty
@findex magit-extras-repo-is-dirty-p
Before performing automated operations on a repository, it is often wise to verify that it has no uncommitted changes. The command @code{magit-extras-warn-if-repo-is-dirty} checks whether the repository at REPO-PATH (or the current repository if nil) has any modifications and emits an alert via the @samp{alert} package if so.

The predicate @code{magit-extras-repo-is-dirty-p} performs the underlying check using @code{magit-anything-modified-p}. It returns @code{t} when the directory exists, is a Git repository, and contains uncommitted changes. Both functions are useful in hooks or timers that perform automated Git operations.

@node Dispatch menu
@section Dispatch menu

@findex magit-extras-dispatch
The function @code{magit-extras-dispatch} defines a customized transient prefix that replaces the default @code{magit-dispatch} via @samp{advice-add}. The layout largely mirrors the standard Magit dispatch but includes the Forge dispatch under @samp{n} and a push binding under @samp{.}, among other adjustments. The menu is organized into three groups: transient and DWIM commands, applying changes (visible only in Magit buffers), and essential commands.

Because this function overrides @code{magit-dispatch}, invoking the standard Magit dispatch keybinding will display this custom menu.

@node Repository maintenance
@chapter Repository maintenance

@menu
* Asynchronous pull::
* Automatic submodule pull::
* Production branch guard::
@end menu

@node Asynchronous pull
@section Asynchronous pull

@findex magit-extra-async-pull
The function @code{magit-extra-async-pull} starts a background @samp{git pull} process for REPO without blocking Emacs. It creates an asynchronous process and reports errors via @code{message} if the pull does not finish cleanly. This is useful for keeping repositories synchronized in the background, for instance from a timer or init hook.

@node Automatic submodule pull
@section Automatic submodule pull

@findex magit-extras-pull-including-submodules
The function @code{magit-extras-pull-including-submodules} is installed as @samp{:after} advice on @code{magit-pull}. Whenever you pull in a repository that contains a @samp{.gitmodules} file, this function automatically updates all submodules recursively by calling @code{magit-extras-pull-all-submodules}. This saves you from having to remember to update submodules manually after each pull.

@node Production branch guard
@section Production branch guard

Accidentally pushing to a production branch can have serious consequences. The internal function @code{magit-extras--guard-production} is installed as @samp{:before} advice on both @code{magit-push-current-to-pushremote} and @code{magit-push-current-to-upstream}. When the target branch name contains the string ``production'', the function prompts for confirmation with @code{yes-or-no-p} before allowing the push to proceed. If the user declines, the push is cancelled with a @code{user-error}.

@node Transient suffixes
@chapter Transient suffixes

@findex magit-extras-update-all-submodules
@findex magit-extras-pull-all-submodules
The package defines two transient suffix commands intended for inclusion in Magit's submodule transient menu:

The suffix @code{magit-extras-update-all-submodules} runs @samp{git submodule update --init} with optional @samp{--recursive} arguments. This initializes any uninitialized submodules and checks out the exact commit recorded in the superproject. It does @emph{not} pull the latest changes from the submodule remotes, making it suitable for reproducing a known state.

The suffix @code{magit-extras-pull-all-submodules} runs @samp{git submodule foreach --recursive git pull}, which fetches and merges the latest changes from each submodule's default upstream branch. Unlike @code{magit-extras-update-all-submodules}, this updates submodules to their latest development state regardless of what the superproject records.

Both suffixes accept the standard @code{magit-submodule-arguments} for the @samp{--recursive} flag and run asynchronously.

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

@menu
* URL and file helpers::
* Reverting stale buffers::
@end menu

@node URL and file helpers
@section URL and file helpers

@findex magit-extras-parse-url
@findex magit-extras-get-commit-file
@findex magit-extras-get-commit-heading
@findex magit-extras-get-unstaged-files
@findex magit-extras-track-file
@findex magit-extras-move-point-to-start
@findex magit-extras-midnight-update
The function @code{magit-extras-parse-url} converts a Git remote URL in SSH format (e.g., @samp{git@@github.com:user/repo.git}) into an HTTPS URL@. It passes HTTP URLs through unchanged.

The function @code{magit-extras-get-commit-file} returns the first staged file in the current repository, querying @samp{git} via @code{magit-staged-files}. It accepts an optional PATH argument: @code{'full} returns the absolute path, @code{'sans-dir} returns only the filename, and @code{nil} (the default) returns the path relative to the repository root.

The function @code{magit-extras-get-commit-heading} retrieves the Org mode heading associated with the code being committed. It parses the diff in the commit buffer to find the first changed line number, visits the file at that line, and returns the enclosing heading via @code{org-entry-get}. This is useful for generating commit messages from Org structure.

The function @code{magit-extras-get-unstaged-files} returns a list of unstaged file names using @samp{git diff --name-only --diff-filter=d}. The function @code{magit-extras-track-file} stages a single file with @samp{git add}. The function @code{magit-extras-move-point-to-start} moves point to the beginning of the buffer after a brief delay, which can be useful in Magit hooks.

The function @code{magit-extras-midnight-update} performs a stage-commit-push
cycle in the given DIRECTORY with the commit message ``Midnight update''.
Before staging, it calls @code{magit-extras-revert-clean-buffers-in-directory}
to refresh stale Emacs buffers, preventing on-disk changes made by
external tools from being overwritten (@ref{Reverting stale buffers}).
It is called by @code{magit-extras-stage-commit-and-push-all-repos}
(@ref{Stage commit and push, , Stage@comma{} commit@comma{} and push}).

@node Reverting stale buffers
@section Reverting stale buffers

@findex magit-extras-revert-clean-buffers-in-directory
The function @code{magit-extras-revert-clean-buffers-in-directory} reverts
all unmodified file-visiting buffers whose files reside under
DIRECTORY@.  A buffer is reverted only when its file still exists on
disk and the buffer has no unsaved edits.  This ensures that external
modifications---from scripts, command-line tools, or other
processes---are picked up by Emacs before a commit.

This function is called automatically by @code{magit-extras-midnight-update}
before staging.  Without it, the @code{files-extras-save-all-buffers} step
(which runs earlier in the @code{midnight-hook}) could overwrite on-disk
changes with stale buffer contents, silently deleting work done
outside Emacs.

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
