\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename markdown-mode-extras.info
@settitle markdown-mode-extras: Extensions for Markdown mode
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* Markdown Mode Extras: (markdown-mode-extras). Extensions for Markdown mode.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title markdown-mode-extras: Extensions for Markdown mode
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top markdown-mode-extras: Extensions for Markdown mode

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{markdown-mode-extras.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* Commands::
* Functions::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Commands

* Clipboard conversion::
* Section operations::
* Link editing::

Functions

* Getting section content::
* Deleting a link::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{markdown-mode-extras.el} extends @samp{markdown-mode} with commands for
clipboard conversion, section manipulation, and link editing.  Much of
the package revolves around interoperability between Markdown and Org
mode, using Pandoc as the conversion engine.  If you frequently copy
content between Org and Markdown files, or paste formatted text from
the web into a Markdown buffer, these commands save considerable
manual reformatting.

The main capabilities are:

@itemize
@item
@strong{Clipboard conversion}: paste clipboard content while converting
between Org, Markdown, and HTML formats via Pandoc
(@ref{Clipboard conversion}).
@item
@strong{Section operations}: extract or copy the body of the current
Markdown section (@ref{Section operations}).
@item
@strong{Link editing}: strip the URL from a Markdown link, keeping only the
description text (@ref{Link editing}).
@end itemize

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Clipboard conversion::
* Section operations::
* Link editing::
@end menu

@node Clipboard conversion
@section Clipboard conversion

@findex markdown-mode-extras-org-paste-dwim
The command @code{markdown-mode-extras-org-paste-dwim} converts clipboard
content between Org and Markdown based on the current major mode.  In
a @samp{markdown-mode} buffer it assumes the clipboard holds Org syntax and
converts to Markdown; in an @samp{org-mode} buffer it does the reverse.
The conversion is performed by piping the system clipboard (@samp{pbv} on
macOS, @samp{xclip} elsewhere) through Pandoc with @samp{--wrap=none}.  A few
post-processing cleanups are applied to the Pandoc output before
yanking.

@findex markdown-mode-extras-paste-with-conversion
When you copy formatted text from a web page or other rich-text
source, @code{markdown-mode-extras-paste-with-conversion} converts the
clipboard to GitHub-Flavored Markdown (@samp{gfm-raw_html}) and inserts the
result.  It uses @code{simple-extras-pandoc-convert} from @samp{simple-extras.el}
to detect whether the clipboard contains HTML or Org and to choose the
appropriate Pandoc input format.  For the reverse process (copying
Markdown as formatted HTML), see @code{ox-clip-formatted-copy}.

@node Section operations
@section Section operations

@findex markdown-mode-extras-copy-section
The command @code{markdown-mode-extras-copy-section} copies the body of the
Markdown section at point to the kill ring and echoes it.  A ``section''
is the text between a heading (@samp{^#+ ...}) and the next heading of the
same or higher level.  If called with a non-nil SECTION argument
(available only from Lisp), the command searches for the named section
instead of using the one at point.

Internally, the command calls @code{markdown-mode-extras-get-section}
(@ref{Getting section content}).

@node Link editing
@section Link editing

@findex markdown-mode-extras-remove-url-in-link
When editing a Markdown document you sometimes want to unlink text
while keeping the description.  The command
@code{markdown-mode-extras-remove-url-in-link} does exactly that: with
point inside a Markdown link (@samp{[description](url)}), it removes the
link markup and leaves only the description text.

With a prefix argument, the command instead prompts for a @emph{new} URL
and re-inserts the link with the original description and the
replacement URL@.  This is handy for updating broken or outdated links.

The command uses @code{markdown-mode-extras-delete-link}
(@ref{Deleting a link}) to remove the original link structure.

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

@menu
* Getting section content::
* Deleting a link::
@end menu

@node Getting section content
@section Getting section content

@findex markdown-mode-extras-get-section
The function @code{markdown-mode-extras-get-section} returns the body of a
Markdown section as a string.  If the optional SECTION argument (a
heading title) is provided, the function searches the buffer for that
heading; otherwise it uses the section containing point.  Section
boundaries are determined by @code{markdown-outline-previous} and
@code{markdown-outline-next}.

@node Deleting a link
@section Deleting a link

@findex markdown-mode-extras-delete-link
The function @code{markdown-mode-extras-delete-link} removes the entire
Markdown link at point (@samp{[description](url)}) from the buffer and
returns the link's description text.  It uses @code{markdown-link-at-pos}
to locate the link boundaries.  This function is used by
@code{markdown-mode-extras-remove-url-in-link} (@ref{Link editing}).

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
