\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename mu4e-extras.info
@settitle mu4e-extras: Extensions for mu4e
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* Mu4e Extras: (mu4e-extras). Extensions for mu4e.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title mu4e-extras: Extensions for mu4e
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top mu4e-extras: Extensions for mu4e

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{mu4e-extras.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* User options::
* Commands::
* Functions::
* Patched functions::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

User options

* Folder configuration::
* Reply behavior::
* Reaction emojis::
* Chrome profile selection::

Commands

* Refiling, trashing, and moving without confirmation: Refiling trashing and moving without confirmation. 
* Marking as read and refiling::
* Initializing and updating mail::
* Composing messages::
* Gmail reactions::
* Viewing messages in Gmail::
* Message file operations::
* Org capture integration::
* Copying information::

Functions

* Read status management::
* Gmail flag correction::
* Setup helpers::
* Archiving refiled messages::
* Context matching::
* Reaction helpers::
* Chrome profile helpers::
* Message file access::

Patched functions

* Single-URL auto-selection::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{mu4e-extras.el} extends @samp{mu4e}, the Emacs email client powered by the
@samp{mu} indexer, with commands and configuration helpers tailored to a
Gmail-based workflow.  It depends on @samp{el-patch} for patching internal
@samp{mu4e} functions and on @samp{mu4e} itself.

The package solves several practical problems that arise when using
@samp{mu4e} with Gmail.  The personal account syncs via @samp{mbsync} (IMAP),
while the Epoch AI account syncs via @samp{gmail-maildir-sync}, a custom
tool that uses the Gmail API directly (necessary because the Epoch
Google Workspace admin has disabled IMAP).  Both sync backends run in
parallel during mail updates.  Gmail's IMAP behavior can reset the read
status of refiled and sent messages after synchronization.  This package
tracks such messages in a queue and re-applies the read flag after each
sync cycle, preventing the annoying appearance of already-read messages
as unread.

For daily email processing, the package provides one-step refile, trash,
and move commands that skip the confirmation prompt.  This removes
friction from the most common email actions in both headers and view
modes.

The package also handles multiple email contexts (personal vs. work,
HTML vs. plain text), sets up maildir shortcuts, integrates with Org
capture for processing actionable emails, and provides commands for
opening messages in Gmail's web interface.  A patch to
@code{mu4e--view-get-urls-num} removes the unnecessary prompt when a message
contains only a single URL@.

@node User options
@chapter User options

@menu
* Folder configuration::
* Reply behavior::
* Reaction emojis::
* Chrome profile selection::
@end menu

@node Folder configuration
@section Folder configuration

@vindex mu4e-extras-inbox-folder
@vindex mu4e-extras-daily-folder
@vindex mu4e-extras-newsletters-folder
@vindex mu4e-extras-epoch-inbox-folder
@vindex mu4e-extras-epoch-sent-folder
@vindex mu4e-extras-epoch-drafts-folder
@vindex mu4e-extras-epoch-refiled-folder
@vindex mu4e-extras-epoch-trash-folder
The user option @code{mu4e-extras-inbox-folder} specifies the maildir path
for the main inbox folder.  It is used by @code{mu4e-extras-set-shortcuts}
and @code{mu4e-extras-set-bookmarks} to configure maildir shortcuts and
bookmarks (@ref{Setup helpers}).  The default value is an empty string; you
must set this to match your maildir layout (e.g., @samp{"/Inbox"}).

The user option @code{mu4e-extras-daily-folder} specifies the maildir path
for a ``daily'' folder, also used by @code{mu4e-extras-set-shortcuts}.  The
default value is an empty string.

The user option @code{mu4e-extras-newsletters-folder} specifies the maildir
path for a newsletters folder.  The default value is an empty string.
This option is available for use in custom configurations but is not
referenced by any default function in the package.

The user option @code{mu4e-extras-epoch-inbox-folder} specifies the maildir
path for the Epoch AI inbox folder, used by
@code{mu4e-extras-set-shortcuts} and @code{mu4e-extras-set-bookmarks}.  The
default value is an empty string.

The user options @code{mu4e-extras-epoch-sent-folder},
@code{mu4e-extras-epoch-drafts-folder}, @code{mu4e-extras-epoch-refiled-folder},
and @code{mu4e-extras-epoch-trash-folder} specify the maildir paths for the
corresponding Epoch AI folders.  They are used by
@code{mu4e-extras-set-shortcuts} to add uppercase-key maildir shortcuts for
Epoch folders.  The default value for each is an empty string.

@node Reply behavior
@section Reply behavior

@vindex mu4e-extras-wide-reply
The user option @code{mu4e-extras-wide-reply} controls the default behavior
when replying to messages with multiple recipients.  It accepts three
values:

@itemize
@item
@code{prompt} (the default): ask the user whether to reply to all.
@item
@code{t}: always reply to all recipients.
@item
@code{nil}: always reply only to the sender.
@end itemize

This option is consulted by @code{mu4e-extras-compose-reply}
(@ref{Composing messages}).  When the original message has only a single
recipient (excluding the sender), the option has no effect and a normal
reply is always used.

@node Reaction emojis
@section Reaction emojis

@vindex mu4e-extras-reaction-emojis
The user option @code{mu4e-extras-reaction-emojis} specifies the list of
emoji choices presented when reacting to a message with
@code{mu4e-extras-react-to-message} (@ref{Gmail reactions}).  The default value
includes common emojis such as thumbs up, heart, and check mark.

@node Chrome profile selection
@section Chrome profile selection

@vindex mu4e-extras-chrome-profile-personal
@vindex mu4e-extras-chrome-profile-work
@vindex mu4e-extras-chrome-program
Commands that open Gmail in a browser route the URL to a specific
Chrome profile based on the email account.  This is useful when you
run separate Chrome profiles for personal and work browsing.

The user option @code{mu4e-extras-chrome-profile-personal} specifies the
Chrome profile directory for personal email.  The value is the on-disk
directory name inside @samp{~/Library/Application Support/Google/Chrome/}
(e.g. @samp{"Default"}, @samp{"Profile 1"}, @samp{"Profile 2"}), @strong{not} the display
name shown in Chrome's UI@.  Chrome numbers profile directories
sequentially: the first profile is @samp{"Default"}, subsequent profiles
are @samp{"Profile 1"}, @samp{"Profile 2"}, and so on.  The default value is
@samp{"Default"}.

The user option @code{mu4e-extras-chrome-profile-work} specifies the Chrome
profile directory for work (Epoch) email, using the same naming
convention.  The default value is @samp{"Profile 2"}.

The user option @code{mu4e-extras-chrome-program} specifies the Chrome
executable used to open Gmail URLs.  The default value is the standard
macOS Chrome executable path.

These options are consulted by @code{mu4e-extras-chrome-profile-for-msg}
(@ref{Chrome profile helpers}), which is called by @code{mu4e-extras-view-in-gmail},
@code{mu4e-extras-open-gmail}, and @code{mu4e-extras-compose-new-externally}
(@ref{Viewing messages in Gmail}, @ref{Composing messages}).

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Refiling, trashing, and moving without confirmation: Refiling trashing and moving without confirmation. 
* Marking as read and refiling::
* Initializing and updating mail::
* Composing messages::
* Gmail reactions::
* Viewing messages in Gmail::
* Message file operations::
* Org capture integration::
* Copying information::
@end menu

@node Refiling trashing and moving without confirmation
@section Refiling, trashing, and moving without confirmation

@findex mu4e-extras-headers-refile
@findex mu4e-extras-view-refile
@findex mu4e-extras-headers-trash
@findex mu4e-extras-view-trash
@findex mu4e-extras-headers-move
@findex mu4e-extras-view-move
@findex mu4e-extras-mark-execute-all-no-confirm
The standard @samp{mu4e} mark-and-execute workflow requires an explicit
confirmation step.  The commands in this section bypass that
confirmation, performing the action immediately on the message at point.

The commands @code{mu4e-extras-headers-refile} and @code{mu4e-extras-view-refile}
refile the message at point in headers mode and view mode respectively.
Similarly, @code{mu4e-extras-headers-trash} and @code{mu4e-extras-view-trash}
trash the message, while @code{mu4e-extras-headers-move} and
@code{mu4e-extras-view-move} prompt for a target folder and move the message
immediately.

The command @code{mu4e-extras-mark-execute-all-no-confirm} executes all
pending marks in the current buffer without asking for confirmation.

@node Marking as read and refiling
@section Marking as read and refiling

@findex mu4e-extras-headers-mark-read-and-refile
The command @code{mu4e-extras-headers-mark-read-and-refile} combines two
actions: it marks the message at point as read and refiles it.  The
message's ID is added to an internal queue so that its read status can
be re-applied after the next Gmail synchronization (@ref{Read status management}).

This command exists because Gmail's IMAP implementation sometimes resets
the read flag on refiled messages during synchronization.  By queuing
the message, the package ensures the flag is restored automatically.

@node Initializing and updating mail
@section Initializing and updating mail

@findex mu4e-extras-init
@findex mu4e-extras-update-all-mail-and-index
@findex mu4e-extras-check-all-mail
@findex mu4e-extras-reindex-db
The command @code{mu4e-extras-init} reinitializes the @samp{mu} database.  It
stops any running mail update, quits @samp{mu4e}, and then runs the @samp{muinit}
script asynchronously.  Use this when the database is corrupted or after
major configuration changes.

The command @code{mu4e-extras-update-all-mail-and-index} fetches all mail
including archives from all accounts, then indexes with @samp{mu}.  It runs
@samp{mbsync gmail-all} for the personal account and
@samp{gmail-maildir-sync pull --include-all} for the Epoch account in
parallel (the Epoch account uses the Gmail API instead of IMAP, since
the Epoch Google Workspace admin has disabled IMAP).  With a prefix
argument, it runs in the background; otherwise, it shows a progress
window.

Mail updates run from the current buffer's @code{default-directory} when that
directory still exists, and from the user's home directory otherwise.
This prevents @samp{mu4e}'s subprocess startup from failing when a manual or
timer-triggered update runs after the current worktree directory has
been deleted.

The command @code{mu4e-extras-check-all-mail} performs the same operation as
@code{mu4e-extras-update-all-mail-and-index} but always runs in the
background.  It is intended for periodic full syncs that can take longer.

The command @code{mu4e-extras-reindex-db} kills any running @samp{mu} process and
then runs @samp{mu index} to rebuild the index.

@node Composing messages
@section Composing messages

@findex mu4e-extras-compose-reply
@findex mu4e-extras-compose-new-externally
The command @code{mu4e-extras-compose-reply} initiates a reply to the message
at point.  If the sender is the current user, it calls
@code{mu4e-compose-supersede} to edit the sent message.  When there are
multiple recipients, the behavior depends on the @code{mu4e-extras-wide-reply}
user option (@ref{Reply behavior}).

The command @code{mu4e-extras-compose-new-externally} opens Gmail's compose
screen in a browser, bypassing @samp{mu4e} entirely.  It always opens in
the personal Chrome profile (@ref{Chrome profile selection}).

@node Gmail reactions
@section Gmail reactions

@findex mu4e-extras-react-to-message
The command @code{mu4e-extras-react-to-message} reacts to the email at point
with a Gmail emoji reaction.  It prompts the user to select an emoji
from @code{mu4e-extras-reaction-emojis} (@ref{Reaction emojis}), then constructs a
MIME message per Google's email reaction format specification (using a
@samp{text/vnd.google.email-reaction+json} part) and sends it to the
original sender.

The command automatically determines the sending account by checking
which of the user's email addresses appears in the message's To or Cc
fields.  Epoch messages are sent via the Gmail API (through
@samp{gmail-maildir-sync send}); personal and Tlon messages are sent via
SMTP@.

@node Viewing messages in Gmail
@section Viewing messages in Gmail

@findex mu4e-extras-open-gmail
@findex mu4e-extras-view-in-gmail
@findex mu4e-extras-gmail-base
@findex mu4e-extras-gmail-message-id
@findex mu4e-extras-gmail-thread-id
@vindex mu4e-extras-gmail-sync-state-db
The function @code{mu4e-extras-gmail-base} returns the base Gmail URL
(@samp{https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/}).  It uses account index 0
because Chrome profile selection (@ref{Chrome profile selection}) already
routes to the correct account, making email-based account resolution
in the URL unnecessary.

The command @code{mu4e-extras-open-gmail} opens the Gmail inbox in a browser.
When called from a message buffer, it detects the message's account and
opens the URL in the corresponding Chrome profile (@ref{Chrome profile selection, , Chrome profile
selection}).  When no message is at point, it defaults to the personal
profile.

The command @code{mu4e-extras-view-in-gmail} opens the message at point in
Gmail.  For messages synced via @code{gmail-maildir-sync} (Epoch account), it
reads the @samp{X-Gmail-Message-Id} header from the message file, looks up
the corresponding thread ID from the @code{gmail-maildir-sync} SQLite state
database (@code{mu4e-extras-gmail-sync-state-db}), and opens the thread
directly using a @code{#all/<thread-id>} URL@.  For other messages (personal
account), it falls back to searching by RFC 822 message ID@.  The URL is
opened in the Chrome profile matching the message's account
(@ref{Chrome profile selection}).  This is useful when you need to perform an
action that @samp{mu4e} does not support, such as viewing the full HTML
rendering or accessing Gmail-specific features.

@node Message file operations
@section Message file operations

@findex mu4e-extras-copy-message-path
@findex mu4e-extras-open-message-file
The command @code{mu4e-extras-copy-message-path} copies the filesystem path
of the current message to the kill ring.  This is useful when you need
to pass the path to an external tool or paste it into a shell command.
It uses @code{mu4e-extras-get-message-file} internally
(@ref{Message file access}).

The command @code{mu4e-extras-open-message-file} opens the file on disk that
stores the current message.  It uses @code{dired-jump} to display the file
in its parent directory in Dired mode.  This is useful for inspecting
raw message files or managing mail storage.

@node Org capture integration
@section Org capture integration

@findex mu4e-extras-view-org-capture
The command @code{mu4e-extras-view-org-capture} captures the message at point
using @samp{org-capture}.  By default it uses the template key @samp{"e"}, but if
the message body contains the string @samp{[org-capture key: KEY]}, it uses
KEY instead.  This allows automated email workflows to specify which
capture template should process the message.

Without a prefix argument, the message is refiled after capture (via
@code{mu4e-extras-view-refile}).  With a prefix argument, the message is
captured but not refiled, leaving it in the inbox.

This command works in both @code{mu4e-view-mode} and @code{mu4e-headers-mode}.

@node Copying information
@section Copying information

@findex mu4e-extras-copy-number-in-title
The command @code{mu4e-extras-copy-number-in-title} extracts a numeric value
from the subject line of the message at point and copies it to the kill
ring.  This is useful for quickly capturing amounts from transactional
emails (e.g., invoices, receipts) without opening the message.

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

@menu
* Read status management::
* Gmail flag correction::
* Setup helpers::
* Archiving refiled messages::
* Context matching::
* Reaction helpers::
* Chrome profile helpers::
* Message file access::
@end menu

@node Read status management
@section Read status management

@findex mu4e-extras-reapply-read-status
@findex mu4e-extras-reapply-read-status-set-timer
@findex mu4e-extras-add-refiled-to-mark-as-read-queue
@findex mu4e-extras-add-sent-to-mark-as-read-queue
@vindex mu4e-extras-mark-as-read-queue
The variable @code{mu4e-extras-mark-as-read-queue} holds a list of message
IDs that need to be re-marked as read after the next Gmail
synchronization.  Messages are added to this queue by two functions:

The function @code{mu4e-extras-add-refiled-to-mark-as-read-queue} adds the
current message to the queue, refiles it, and executes all marks.  It is
called by @code{mu4e-extras-headers-mark-read-and-refile}
(@ref{Marking as read and refiling}).

The function @code{mu4e-extras-add-sent-to-mark-as-read-queue} adds the sent
message's ID to the queue.  It is intended for @code{message-sent-hook}.
Gmail automatically saves a copy of sent messages, and the synced-back
copy appears as unread; this function ensures it is marked as read.

The function @code{mu4e-extras-reapply-read-status} iterates through the
queue and marks each message as seen using @code{mu4e--server-move} with the
@samp{+S-u} flags.  It then clears the queue.

The function @code{mu4e-extras-reapply-read-status-set-timer} sets a
30-second timer to call @code{mu4e-extras-reapply-read-status} if the queue
is not empty.  This delay allows the synchronization to complete before
re-applying the read status.

@node Gmail flag correction
@section Gmail flag correction

@findex mu4e-extras-gmail-fix-flags
The function @code{mu4e-extras-gmail-fix-flags} translates standard @samp{mu4e}
marks into Gmail-specific label changes.  For each mark and message
pair, it applies the appropriate tag operations: removing @samp{\Inbox} and
adding @samp{\Trash} for trash, removing @samp{\Inbox} and adding @samp{\Refiled} for
refile, and toggling @samp{\Starred} for flag/unflag.  Epoch messages are
skipped, since they are synced via the Gmail API directly (through
@samp{gmail-maildir-sync}) rather than via @samp{mbsync}, so IMAP flag
manipulation does not apply to them.

@node Setup helpers
@section Setup helpers

@findex mu4e-extras-set-shortcuts
@findex mu4e-extras-set-bookmarks
@findex mu4e-extras-set-face-locally
@findex mu4e-extras-send-via-gmail-api
@findex mu4e-extras-set-contexts
@findex mu4e-extras-set-index-params
The function @code{mu4e-extras-set-shortcuts} adds predefined entries to
@code{mu4e-maildir-shortcuts}.  Personal folders use lowercase keys (@code{i} for
inbox, @code{y} for daily) and Epoch folders use uppercase keys (@code{I} for
inbox, @code{T} for sent, @code{D} for drafts, @code{R} for refiled, @code{X} for trash).

The function @code{mu4e-extras-set-bookmarks} adds an ``All inboxes'' bookmark
(key @code{a}) to @code{mu4e-bookmarks} that queries both the personal and Epoch
inbox folders, providing a combined view of all incoming mail.

The function @code{mu4e-extras-set-face-locally} remaps the @code{shr-text} face
to a smaller height (0.9) in @code{mu4e-view-mode} buffers.  This is
intended for @code{mu4e-view-mode-hook} to improve the readability of HTML
emails rendered with @samp{shr}.

The function @code{mu4e-extras-send-via-gmail-api} sends the current message
by piping it to @samp{gmail-maildir-sync send}, which uses the Gmail API
directly.  Unlike @code{message-send-mail-with-sendmail}, it does not inject
sendmail-specific flags (@samp{-oi}, @samp{-f}, @samp{-t}) that @samp{gmail-maildir-sync}
does not accept.

The function @code{mu4e-extras-set-contexts} defines and sets
@code{mu4e-contexts} for six combinations: personal HTML, personal plain
text, Epoch HTML, Epoch plain text, Tlon HTML, and Tlon plain text.
Each context uses environment variables (@samp{PERSONAL_GMAIL},
@samp{EPOCH_EMAIL}, @samp{WORK_EMAIL}) for email addresses and references
account-specific signature variables from @samp{org-msg-extras.el}
(@code{org-msg-extras-epoch-html-signature},
@code{org-msg-extras-tlon-html-signature}, etc.).  The Epoch contexts also
set account-specific folder paths (sent, drafts) and use the custom
function @code{mu4e-extras-send-via-gmail-api} to send messages via
@samp{gmail-maildir-sync send} instead of SMTP, since the Epoch Google
Workspace admin has disabled IMAP/SMTP@.  The Tlon contexts
authenticate SMTP as @samp{PERSONAL_GMAIL} (not @samp{WORK_EMAIL}), since
the Tlon account is configured as a send-as alias in Gmail.  The
plain text contexts disable @code{org-msg-mode} on entry and re-enable
it on leave.

@findex mu4e-extras-set-account-folders
The function @code{mu4e-extras-set-account-folders} sets @code{mu4e-refile-folder}
and @code{mu4e-trash-folder} to functions that route messages to the correct
account-specific folder based on the message's maildir path.

The function @code{mu4e-extras-set-index-params} adjusts indexing parameters
(@code{mu4e-index-lazy-check} and @code{mu4e-index-cleanup}) based on Emacs idle
time.  When the user has been idle for longer than
@code{mu4e-update-interval}, it assumes the user is away and performs a
thorough index (lazy check off, cleanup on).  When idle time is short,
it performs a fast index (lazy check on, cleanup off).

@node Archiving refiled messages
@section Archiving refiled messages

@findex mu4e-extras-archive-refiled
The function @code{mu4e-extras-archive-refiled} archives messages that have
the ``refile'' label by running a full mail sync with @samp{mbsync gmail-all}
and performing a thorough index.  This is intended for periodic cleanup
to keep the archive up to date.

@node Context matching
@section Context matching

@findex mu4e-extras-msg-is-personal-p
@findex mu4e-extras-msg-is-epoch-p
@findex mu4e-extras-msg-is-tlon-p
@findex mu4e-extras-msg-belongs-to-epoch-p
@findex mu4e-extras-msg-is-html-p
@findex mu4e-extras-refile-folder
@findex mu4e-extras-trash-folder
The function @code{mu4e-extras-msg-is-personal-p} returns non-@code{nil} if the
message's @samp{:to} field matches either the personal Gmail address or the
personal email address (from environment variables).

The function @code{mu4e-extras-msg-is-epoch-p} returns non-@code{nil} if the
message's @samp{:to} field matches the Epoch AI email address.

The function @code{mu4e-extras-msg-is-tlon-p} returns non-@code{nil} if the
message's @samp{:to} field matches the Tlon work email address or if the
@samp{:reply-to} field matches the team's Google Group.

The function @code{mu4e-extras-msg-belongs-to-epoch-p} returns non-@code{nil} if
the message's maildir path starts with @samp{/epoch/}.  This is used by the
folder routing functions below.

The function @code{mu4e-extras-refile-folder} returns @samp{/epoch/Refiled} for
Epoch messages and @samp{/Refiled} for all others.

The function @code{mu4e-extras-trash-folder} returns @samp{/epoch/Trash} for
Epoch messages and @samp{/Trash} for all others.

The function @code{mu4e-extras-msg-is-html-p} returns non-@code{nil} if the
message contains a @samp{text/html} MIME part, as determined by parsing the
raw message file.

@node Reaction helpers
@section Reaction helpers

@findex mu4e-extras-reaction-from-address
@findex mu4e-extras-reaction-to-email
@findex mu4e-extras-reaction-build-mime
@findex mu4e-extras-reaction-send
The function @code{mu4e-extras-reaction-from-address} determines the
sending account for a reaction by checking which of the user's email
addresses (Epoch, Tlon, or personal) appears in the message's To or
Cc fields.

The function @code{mu4e-extras-reaction-to-email} extracts the bare email
address of the original sender.

The function @code{mu4e-extras-reaction-build-mime} constructs a
@samp{multipart/alternative} MIME message containing three parts: a plain
text fallback, a @samp{text/vnd.google.email-reaction+json} part with the
emoji and format version, and an HTML fallback.

The function @code{mu4e-extras-reaction-send} dispatches the reaction
message to the appropriate transport: the Gmail API (via
@samp{gmail-maildir-sync send}) for Epoch messages, and SMTP for all
others.

@node Chrome profile helpers
@section Chrome profile helpers

@findex mu4e-extras-browse-url-in-chrome-profile
@findex mu4e-extras-chrome-profile-for-msg
@vindex mu4e-extras-chrome-program
The function @code{mu4e-extras-browse-url-in-chrome-profile} opens a URL in
a specific Chrome profile by launching @code{mu4e-extras-chrome-program}
with the @samp{--profile-directory} and @samp{--new-tab} flags.  PROFILE is a
directory name like @samp{"Default"} or @samp{"Profile 2"}.

The function @code{mu4e-extras-chrome-profile-for-msg} returns the Chrome
profile directory for a given message.  It returns
@code{mu4e-extras-chrome-profile-work} for Epoch messages and
@code{mu4e-extras-chrome-profile-personal} otherwise (@ref{Chrome profile selection, , Chrome profile
selection}).  When MSG is @code{nil}, it returns the personal profile.

@node Message file access
@section Message file access

@findex mu4e-extras-get-message-file
The function @code{mu4e-extras-get-message-file} returns the filesystem path
of the message at point.  It checks @code{mu4e-compose-parent-message} first
(for use during composition) and falls back to @code{mu4e-message-at-point}.

@node Patched functions
@chapter Patched functions

@menu
* Single-URL auto-selection::
@end menu

@node Single-URL auto-selection
@section Single-URL auto-selection

@findex mu4e--view-get-urls-num
The function @code{mu4e--view-get-urls-num} is patched using @samp{el-patch} to
automatically select the URL when a message contains exactly one link.
The standard behavior would prompt the user to enter the number ``1'',
which is unnecessary.  When there are multiple URLs, the original
prompting behavior is preserved.

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
