\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename org-roam-extras.info
@settitle org-roam-extras: Extensions for org-roam
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* Org Roam Extras: (org-roam-extras). Extensions for org-roam.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title org-roam-extras: Extensions for org-roam
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top org-roam-extras: Extensions for org-roam

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{org-roam-extras.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* User options::
* Commands::
* Functions::
* Patched functions::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

User options

* Exclusion lists::
* Backlink buffer display::

Commands

* Creating notes::
* Finding nodes::
* Navigating to nodes::
* Replacing star links with ID links::

Functions

* Node inclusion::
* Backlink tracking::
* Backlink display::
* People directory::
* Note creation helpers::
* Link utilities::
* Capture support::
* Recent files::

Patched functions

* Database query delay::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{org-roam-extras.el} extends the @samp{org-roam} package, a personal
knowledge management system for Emacs based on Zettelkasten principles.
It depends on @samp{el-patch} for patching the database query function,
@samp{org-extras} for heading manipulation utilities, and @samp{paths} for
directory constants.

The package adds several capabilities on top of the standard @samp{org-roam}
interface.  It provides a configurable node inclusion function that
filters out headings tagged with ``noid'' or ``ARCHIVE'', certain
conventional heading names (like ``Local variables'' or ``Further reading''),
and sub-headings in specific directories such as journal entries.  This
keeps the Org Roam database focused on substantive notes.

For note creation, the package offers a workflow that prompts for a note
type (generic, person, or project-specific), determines the appropriate
directory and tags, creates a slugified file, and sets up the initial
structure.  A complementary command converts existing headings into
standalone notes.

The package enhances node finding with a specialized command that
queries the Org Roam database for prioritized nodes, optionally filtered
by tag or directory.  This surfaces actionable items sorted by priority,
skipping nodes that already have scheduled dates or deadlines.

Backlink tracking is supported through functions that count backlinks
and update the modeline (integrating with @samp{doom-modeline-extras.el}).
An option to automatically display the backlink buffer when opening a
file with backlinks is also available.

A set of commands for replacing internal @code{[[*Title]]} links with proper
@code{[[id:UUID]]} links automates the conversion of legacy link formats
within entire directories of Org files.

A patch adds a small delay before Org Roam database queries to mitigate
potential SQLite locking issues that can occur with rapid successive
queries.

@node User options
@chapter User options

@menu
* Exclusion lists::
* Backlink buffer display::
@end menu

@node Exclusion lists
@section Exclusion lists

@vindex org-roam-extras-excluded-dirs
@vindex org-roam-extras-excluded-files
The user option @code{org-roam-extras-excluded-dirs} specifies a list of
directory paths to exclude from Org Roam's file scanning.  Files within
these directories will not be indexed.  The default value includes
inactive, archive, and collaborator-specific directories.  Add
directories here when they contain Org files that should not appear in
Org Roam queries.

The user option @code{org-roam-extras-excluded-files} specifies a list of
file names or patterns to exclude from Org Roam.  Entries can be literal
file names or regular expression patterns.  The default includes
template files, old data files, and Dropbox conflict copies.  Both
options feed into @code{org-roam-file-exclude-regexp}.

@node Backlink buffer display
@section Backlink buffer display

@vindex org-roam-extras-auto-show-backlink-buffer
The user option @code{org-roam-extras-auto-show-backlink-buffer} controls
whether the Org Roam backlink buffer is automatically displayed when
opening a file that has backlinks.  The default value is @code{nil}, meaning
the backlink buffer is not shown automatically.  Set it to @code{t} if you
want the backlink buffer to appear whenever you visit a note with
incoming links.

When enabled, @code{org-roam-extras-show-backlink-buffer} (@ref{Backlink display})
should be added to @code{find-file-hook}.

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Creating notes::
* Finding nodes::
* Navigating to nodes::
* Replacing star links with ID links::
@end menu

@node Creating notes
@section Creating notes

@findex org-roam-extras-new-note
@findex org-roam-extras-convert-heading-to-note
The command @code{org-roam-extras-new-note} creates a new Org Roam note
through a guided workflow.  It first prompts the user to select a note
type: ``generic'', ``person'', ``Borges'', ``tango'', or ``tlon-notes''.  The
type determines the target directory (e.g., @code{paths-dir-notes} for
generic, @code{paths-dir-people} for person) and the initial tags.

After selecting the type, it prompts for the note name, creates a file
with a slugified version of that name (via @code{simple-extras-slugify}),
inserts the @samp{#+title:} line and an initial heading, sets the tags,
creates an Org ID, narrows to the new entry, and places point at the end
of the buffer.

The command @code{org-roam-extras-convert-heading-to-note} extracts the
current Org heading and its subtree from the source buffer, prompts for
a note name (defaulting to the heading title), and creates a new file in
the current directory.  The heading content is moved into the new file,
which gets a @samp{#+title:} line and an adjusted top-level heading.  The
original heading is removed from the source buffer.

@node Finding nodes
@section Finding nodes

@findex org-roam-extras-node-find
@findex org-roam-extras-node-find-special
@findex org-roam-extras-node-select-tag
The command @code{org-roam-extras-node-find} acts as an enhanced wrapper
around @code{org-roam-node-find}.  Before invoking the finder, it widens the
buffer and shows all headings (via @code{org-extras-fold-show-all-headings}).
After jumping to the selected node, it recenters the buffer.

The command @code{org-roam-extras-node-find-special} provides a filtered view
of Org Roam nodes.  It queries the database for nodes that have a
priority, have either no TODO state or the state ``TODO'', and do not have
a SCHEDULED or DEADLINE timestamp.  The results are presented sorted by
priority (ascending, so @samp{#A} appears first).

The command accepts an optional FILTER-SPEC argument:

@itemize
@item
@code{nil}: no additional filter.
@item
@code{t} or a prefix argument: prompt the user to filter by tag or
directory.
@item
@code{(:tag TAG)}: filter by a specific tag.
@item
@code{(:dir DIRECTORY)}: filter by a specific directory.
@end itemize

Selection uses @code{consult--read} for a completing-read interface with
previews.  Jumping to the selected node uses @code{org-id-goto}.

The command @code{org-roam-extras-node-select-tag} prompts for a tag from all
tags present in the Org Roam database.  It is used internally by
@code{org-roam-extras-node-find-special} when filtering by tag.

@node Navigating to nodes
@section Navigating to nodes

@findex org-roam-extras-id-goto
The command @code{org-roam-extras-id-goto} jumps to the location of an Org
ID@.  It widens the buffer both before and after the jump, which handles
the case where the target is in a currently narrowed buffer.  The jump
is performed twice (via @code{org-roam-id-open}) to ensure the correct
position is reached even when narrowing interferes.

@node Replacing star links with ID links
@section Replacing star links with ID links

@findex org-roam-extras-replace-star-links-with-id
The command @code{org-roam-extras-replace-star-links-with-id} walks through
every @samp{.org} file in a given directory and converts links of the form
@code{[[*Title][Description]]} into @code{[[id:UUID][Description]]}, where UUID is
the Org ID of the node whose title matches.

The command is fully automatic: it visits each file, performs the
substitutions (using @code{org-element-map} for robust parsing), and saves
any modified buffers.  When called with a prefix argument (NOCASE), the
title matching is case-insensitive.  An optional DIRS argument restricts
the ID lookup to nodes within specific directories.

Internally, the command uses
@code{org-roam-extras--replace-star-links-with-id-in-file} to process each
file and @code{org-roam-extras-get-id-of-title} to resolve titles to IDs
(@ref{Link utilities}).

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

@menu
* Node inclusion::
* Backlink tracking::
* Backlink display::
* People directory::
* Note creation helpers::
* Link utilities::
* Capture support::
* Recent files::
@end menu

@node Node inclusion
@section Node inclusion

@findex org-roam-extras-node-include-function
The function @code{org-roam-extras-node-include-function} is intended for
@code{org-roam-node-include}.  It returns @code{t} for headings that should
receive an Org ID and be included in the Org Roam database, and @code{nil}
for those that should be excluded.

Exclusion criteria include:

@itemize
@item
Headings tagged with ``noid'' or ``ARCHIVE''.
@item
Headings with specific conventional names such as ``Local variables'',
``Evaluation'', ``History'', ``Further reading'', ``External links'', and
``Related entries''.
@item
Sub-headings (level > 1) in specific directories such as the journal,
Trash, and gptel directories.
@end itemize

@node Backlink tracking
@section Backlink tracking

@findex org-roam-extras-backlink-count
@findex org-roam-extras-update-backlink-count
@findex org-roam-extras-update-modeline
The function @code{org-roam-extras-backlink-count} queries the Org Roam
database for the number of backlinks pointing to the node at point.  It
returns @code{nil} if the buffer is not in @code{org-mode} or if no node ID is
found.

The function @code{org-roam-extras-update-backlink-count} calls
@code{org-roam-extras-backlink-count} and stores the result in the
buffer-local variable @code{org-roam-extras-current-backlink-count}.

The function @code{org-roam-extras-update-modeline} updates the backlink
count and forces a modeline refresh by calling
@code{doom-modeline-update-buffer-file-name}.  It is intended for hooks like
@code{buffer-list-update-hook} to keep the modeline backlink count current.

@node Backlink display
@section Backlink display

@findex org-roam-extras-show-backlink-buffer
The function @code{org-roam-extras-show-backlink-buffer} displays the Org
Roam buffer when visiting a file with backlinks, provided
@code{org-roam-extras-auto-show-backlink-buffer} is non-@code{nil} (@ref{Backlink buffer display}).  It checks whether the Org Roam buffer is already
visible and only displays it if it is not.

@node People directory
@section People directory

@findex org-roam-extras-get-people
The function @code{org-roam-extras-get-people} queries the Org Roam database
for level-1 headings in files within the people directory
(@code{paths-dir-people}).  It returns a list of @samp{(title id)} pairs, useful
for building completion interfaces or reports about contacts.

@node Note creation helpers
@section Note creation helpers

@findex org-roam-extras-get-note-properties
@findex org-roam-extras-create-file-for-note
The function @code{org-roam-extras-get-note-properties} prompts the user to
select a note type and returns a list of @samp{(DIR TAGS)} appropriate for
that type.  It is used by @code{org-roam-extras-new-note}
(@ref{Creating notes}).

The function @code{org-roam-extras-create-file-for-note} creates a file with
a slugified name in the specified directory (defaulting to
@code{paths-dir-notes}).  It signals an error if the file already exists.

@node Link utilities
@section Link utilities

@findex org-roam-extras-get-id-of-title
The function @code{org-roam-extras-get-id-of-title} returns the Org ID of the
node whose title matches exactly.  When NOCASE is non-@code{nil}, the
comparison is case-insensitive.  When DIRS is provided (as a list of
directory paths or a single path), only nodes within those directories
are considered.  An error is signaled if no node or multiple nodes match
the title.

@node Capture support
@section Capture support

@findex org-roam-extras-remove-file-level-properties
The function @code{org-roam-extras-remove-file-level-properties} is intended
for @code{org-capture-before-finalize-hook}.  When the capture template key
is @samp{"r"}, it removes the file-level ``ID'' property and ensures the first
heading receives an Org ID instead.

@node Recent files
@section Recent files

@findex org-roam-extras-recent
The function @code{org-roam-extras-recent} returns a list of Org Roam files
modified within the last DAYS@.  An optional LIMIT argument causes the
function to return the list only if its length is below the limit,
returning @code{nil} otherwise.  The function excludes files matching
@code{org-roam-file-exclude-regexp}.

@node Patched functions
@chapter Patched functions

@menu
* Database query delay::
@end menu

@node Database query delay
@section Database query delay

@findex org-roam-db-query
The function @code{org-roam-db-query} is patched using @samp{el-patch} to insert
a 10-millisecond delay (@code{sleep-for 0.01}) before executing each database
query.  This is a workaround for potential SQLite database locking issues
that can arise when rapid successive queries are made, particularly
during bulk operations like indexing or link replacement.

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
