\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename org-extras.info
@settitle org-extras: Extensions for Org mode
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* Org Extras: (org-extras). Extensions for Org mode.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title org-extras: Extensions for Org mode
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top org-extras: Extensions for Org mode

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{org-extras.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* User options::
* Commands::
* Functions::
* Variables::
* Patched functions::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

User options

* Agenda file exclusions::
* Automatic ID exclusions::
* BBDB anniversaries heading::
* Clock report parameters::
* Participant exclusion regexp::
* Babel evaluation languages::

Commands

* Editing and navigation::
* Agenda management::
* Clocking and timestamps::
* Folding, cycling, and narrowing: Folding cycling and narrowing. 
* ID management::
* List handling::
* Refiling::
* Links and sorting::
* Babel and encryption::
* External integration::
* Transient menus::

Editing and navigation

* Setting TODO properties::
* Copying URLs and links::
* Removing links::
* Inserting subheadings::
* Copying heading contents and names::
* Counting words::
* Jumping to the first heading::
* Opening links in EWW::
* Pasting clipboard content as Org::
* Pasting images from the clipboard::
* Toggling inline images::

Agenda management

* Switching to today's agenda::
* Going to an agenda item and clocking in::
* Marking done and postponing::
* DWIM switching from agenda::
* Toggling anniversaries::
* Toggling log mode::
* Removing agenda highlighting::

Clocking and timestamps

* Inserting clock entries::
* Inserting timestamps::
* Jumping to clock entries::
* Clock reports::
* Deleting headings without logbooks::
* Meeting participants::

Folding, cycling, and narrowing

* Global cycling::
* Showing all headings::
* Showing drawers::
* Narrowing to entries::

ID management

* Automatic ID addition::
* Updating ID locations::
* Finding duplicate IDs::
* Processing duplicate IDs::

Refiling

* Jumping to the latest refiled item::
* Refiling and archiving::
* Regenerating the refile cache::

Links and sorting

* Sorting links::
* Copying EWW content as Org::

Babel and encryption

* Tangling::
* Decryption and clock evaluation::

External integration

* Importing from Google Drive::
* Removing trailing headings::

Functions

* Link helpers::
* Heading content helpers::
* Productivity tracking::
* Image filename generation::
* Capture hook function::
* Clocktable sorting::
* Heading navigation::
* Subtree display helpers::
* Babel evaluation::
* Refiling helpers::
* Linkifying elements::
* Participant checking::
* ID update warning handler::

Patched functions

* Clock resolution scope::
* Agenda file checking::
* Citation insertion::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{org-extras.el} extends Emacs' built-in Org mode with a substantial
collection of commands and helper functions that address gaps in
day-to-day Org workflows.  Where Org mode provides the foundation for
outlining, task management, clocking, and document authoring,
@samp{org-extras.el} adds convenience commands, DWIM behaviors, and
integration glue that make those workflows smoother and more
keyboard-driven.

The package depends on @samp{el-patch} (for patching several upstream Org
functions), @samp{paths} (for resolving common directory and file paths), and
@samp{transient} (for the navigation menus).  Several commands also rely on
external tools such as @samp{org-roam}, @samp{pandoc}, @samp{pngpaste}, and @samp{gdrive}.

The extensions can be grouped into several thematic areas:

@itemize
@item
@strong{Editing and navigation.}  Commands for copying heading names and
contents, inserting subheadings, counting words, extracting and
manipulating links, pasting clipboard content as Org markup or images,
and toggling inline image display (@ref{Editing and navigation}).

@item
@strong{Agenda management.}  Commands for switching to the daily agenda view,
clocking in from the agenda, marking items done or postponed, toggling
anniversary display, and DWIM switching between agenda log lines and
source files (@ref{Agenda management}).

@item
@strong{Clocking and timestamps.}  Commands for inserting clock entries and
timestamps, jumping to the latest clock entry, inserting clock
reports, sorting clock tables, deleting headings without logbooks, and
automatically adding meeting participants when clocking in
(@ref{Clocking and timestamps}).

@item
@strong{Capture hooks.}  A comprehensive hook function that performs
context-dependent actions when finalizing Org capture templates
(@ref{Capture hook function, , Capture hooks}).

@item
@strong{Folding, cycling, and narrowing.}  Enhanced global cycling that hides
archives, commands to show properties and logbooks, and narrowing
commands that respect subtree structure (@ref{Folding cycling and narrowing, , Folding@comma{} cycling@comma{} and narrowing}).

@item
@strong{ID management.}  Automatic addition of Org IDs to headings with
fine-grained exclusion controls, updating ID locations across the Org
directory, and a workflow for finding and resolving duplicate IDs
(@ref{ID management}).

@item
@strong{Refiling.}  Commands for jumping to the last refiled item, refiling
and archiving in a single step, refiling to specific positions, and
regenerating the refile cache (@ref{Refiling}).

@item
@strong{Links and sorting.}  Sorting lists of Org links, linkifying plain
text against Org Roam nodes, and copying EWW buffer content with Org
formatting (@ref{Links and sorting}).

@item
@strong{Babel and encryption.}  A confirmation function for selective code
block evaluation, a tangle command, and a DWIM command that handles
both decryption and clock-line evaluation (@ref{Babel and encryption}).

@item
@strong{External integration.}  Importing Google Docs via Pandoc, removing
trailing empty headings in automated note directories
(@ref{External integration}).

@item
@strong{Transient menus.}  Quick-access menus for personal projects, Tlon
projects, and @samp{config.org} sections (@ref{Transient menus}).

@item
@strong{Patched functions.}  Upstream Org functions patched via @samp{el-patch} to
improve clock resolution, agenda file handling, and citation insertion
(@ref{Patched functions}).
@end itemize

@node User options
@chapter User options

@menu
* Agenda file exclusions::
* Automatic ID exclusions::
* BBDB anniversaries heading::
* Clock report parameters::
* Participant exclusion regexp::
* Babel evaluation languages::
@end menu

@node Agenda file exclusions
@section Agenda file exclusions

@vindex org-extras-agenda-files-excluded
The user option @code{org-extras-agenda-files-excluded} holds a list of file
paths to exclude from Org Agenda generation.  Some files lack the
@samp{property} tag that would normally prevent them from appearing in the
agenda, yet they may still be included if they have been modified
recently (for example, via @code{vulpea-agenda-files-update}).  Adding them
to this list ensures that their TODOs and time logs do not clutter the
agenda view.

The default value is @code{nil} (no files excluded).  The type is a list of
file paths.

@node Automatic ID exclusions
@section Automatic ID exclusions

@vindex org-extras-id-auto-add-excluded-directories
@vindex org-extras-id-auto-add-excluded-files
@vindex org-extras-id-auto-add-excluded-headings
@vindex org-extras-id-auto-add-level-1-dirs
The automatic ID machinery (@ref{ID management}) respects four user
options that control where and how IDs are added.

The user option @code{org-extras-id-auto-add-excluded-directories} is a list
of directory paths.  Files inside these directories will be skipped when
@code{org-extras-id-auto-add-ids-to-headings-in-file} runs.  The default
value is @code{nil}.

The user option @code{org-extras-id-auto-add-excluded-files} is either a list
of file paths to skip, or @code{t} to disable automatic ID addition globally.
Its default value is a list containing @code{paths-file-orb-noter-template}.
When set to a non-nil, non-list value such as @code{t}, the function treats
it as ``exclude all files''.

The user option @code{org-extras-id-auto-add-excluded-headings} is a list of
heading titles (strings) that should never receive an automatic ID@.  The
default value is @samp{("Local variables" "COMMENT Local variables" "TODO
Local variables")}.

The user option @code{org-extras-id-auto-add-level-1-dirs} is a list of
directory paths.  For files in these directories, only level-1 headings
receive automatic IDs, rather than headings at all levels.  The default
value includes the @samp{gptel/} and @samp{chatgpt/} subdirectories under the
notes directory.

@node BBDB anniversaries heading
@section BBDB anniversaries heading

@vindex org-extras-bbdb-anniversaries-heading
The user option @code{org-extras-bbdb-anniversaries-heading} specifies the
Org ID of the heading in @samp{calendar.org} that contains the BBDB
anniversary sexp.  The command @code{org-extras-agenda-toggle-anniversaries}
uses this ID to locate and comment or uncomment the anniversary line
(@ref{Toggling anniversaries}).

The default value is the string
@samp{"2CE5A4E6-842C-4350-ADD0-13D5FC101A20"}.  Set it to @code{nil} to disable
the toggle functionality entirely.

@node Clock report parameters
@section Clock report parameters

@vindex org-extras-clock-report-parameters
The user option @code{org-extras-clock-report-parameters} is a format string
used by @code{org-extras-clock-report-insert} to generate the
@samp{#+BEGIN: clocktable} dynamic block (@ref{Clock reports}).  It
contains two @samp{%s} placeholders: the first for the scope (@samp{agenda},
@samp{file}, or @samp{subtree}), the second for the date range parameters.

The default value is:

@example
#+BEGIN: clocktable :scope %s :maxlevel 9 :narrow 500! :fileskip0 t %s
#+END:
@end example

You might change this to adjust the maximum heading level, column width,
or to add additional clocktable parameters.

@node Participant exclusion regexp
@section Participant exclusion regexp

@vindex org-extras-clock-in-add-participants-exclude
The user option @code{org-extras-clock-in-add-participants-exclude} is a
regexp.  When clocking into a heading whose title matches this regexp,
the automatic participant prompt is suppressed (@ref{Meeting participants}).
This is useful for recurring calendar entries (such as personal focus
blocks) where prompting for participants would be a nuisance.

The default value is @code{nil} (no exclusions).  The type is a regexp
string.

@node Babel evaluation languages
@section Babel evaluation languages

@vindex org-extras-confirm-babel-evaluate-languages
The user option @code{org-extras-confirm-babel-evaluate-languages} is a list
of Org Babel language names (strings) for which code block evaluation
proceeds without confirmation.  The function
@code{org-extras-confirm-babel-evaluate} checks this list and returns
non-nil for languages it contains, which tells Org that no confirmation
prompt is needed (@ref{Babel and encryption}).

The default value is @samp{("emacs-lisp" "python")}.  Add additional
language names (such as @samp{"shell"} or @samp{"ruby"}) if you trust their
evaluation in your workflow.

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Editing and navigation::
* Agenda management::
* Clocking and timestamps::
* Folding, cycling, and narrowing: Folding cycling and narrowing. 
* ID management::
* List handling::
* Refiling::
* Links and sorting::
* Babel and encryption::
* External integration::
* Transient menus::
@end menu

@node Editing and navigation
@section Editing and navigation

@menu
* Setting TODO properties::
* Copying URLs and links::
* Removing links::
* Inserting subheadings::
* Copying heading contents and names::
* Counting words::
* Jumping to the first heading::
* Opening links in EWW::
* Pasting clipboard content as Org::
* Pasting images from the clipboard::
* Toggling inline images::
@end menu

@node Setting TODO properties
@subsection Setting TODO properties

@findex org-extras-set-todo-properties
When triaging tasks, it is common to assign both a priority and an
effort estimate in quick succession.  The command
@code{org-extras-set-todo-properties} calls @code{org-priority} followed by
@code{org-set-effort}, saving a keystroke sequence.

@node Copying URLs and links
@subsection Copying URLs and links

@findex org-extras-url-dwim
@findex org-extras-link-get-link-at-point
@findex org-extras-link-get-url-at-point
@findex org-extras-link-get-description-at-point
Org buffers frequently contain both plain URLs and bracketed Org links,
and one often needs to extract a piece of a link for use elsewhere.  The
command @code{org-extras-url-dwim} copies the URL at point to the kill ring,
handling both plain URLs (detected via @code{thing-at-point-url-at-point})
and the target of an Org bracket link.

For more targeted extraction, three additional commands operate on
bracket links: @code{org-extras-link-get-link-at-point} copies the full
bracket link syntax, @code{org-extras-link-get-url-at-point} copies only the
URL portion, and @code{org-extras-link-get-description-at-point} copies only
the description portion.  All three use @code{org-extras-link-get-thing-at-point}
internally (@ref{Link helpers}).

@node Removing links
@subsection Removing links

@findex org-extras-remove-link
The command @code{org-extras-remove-link} replaces an Org bracket link at
point with its description text, or with its URL if the link has no
description.  This is handy when you want to keep the display text but
strip the hyperlink markup.

@node Inserting subheadings
@subsection Inserting subheadings

@findex org-extras-insert-todo-subheading-after-body
@findex org-extras-insert-subheading
Org provides @code{org-insert-heading} and @code{org-insert-todo-heading}, but
inserting a subheading at exactly the right position often requires
several manual steps.  The command
@code{org-extras-insert-todo-subheading-after-body} narrows to the current
subtree, hides its children, moves to the end, and inserts a demoted
TODO heading.  The result is a new TODO subheading at the very end of
the current entry.

The command @code{org-extras-insert-subheading} is similar but inserts a
plain (non-TODO) subheading.  It places the new heading after the
current entry's body but before any existing subheadings, which is
useful when you want to add prose subsections above the task list.

@node Copying heading contents and names
@subsection Copying heading contents and names

@findex org-extras-copy-heading-contents
@findex org-extras-copy-heading-name
The command @code{org-extras-copy-heading-contents} copies the body text of
the heading at point (excluding the heading line itself and any child
subtrees) to the kill ring.  It uses @code{org-extras-get-heading-contents}
internally (@ref{Heading content helpers}).  If the heading has no body
text, a message is displayed instead.

The command @code{org-extras-copy-heading-name} copies the heading title
(without stars, TODO keyword, priority, or tags) to the kill ring.

@node Counting words
@subsection Counting words

@findex org-extras-count-words
The command @code{org-extras-count-words} counts words in the active region
if one exists, falling back to counting words across the entire current
subtree (including child entries) when no region is active.  In subtree
mode, it skips metadata at the beginning of each entry.  The word count
is copied to the kill ring and a summary message is displayed showing
lines, words, and characters.

@node Jumping to the first heading
@subsection Jumping to the first heading

@findex org-extras-jump-to-first-heading
The command @code{org-extras-jump-to-first-heading} widens the buffer and
moves point to the first visible Org heading.  Several other functions
in this package call it internally (for example,
@code{org-extras-capture-before-finalize-hook-function}).

@node Opening links in EWW
@subsection Opening links in EWW

@findex org-extras-super-return
The command @code{org-extras-super-return} opens the Org link at point using
EWW rather than the default system browser.  It temporarily binds
@code{browse-url-browser-function} to @code{eww-browse-url} and clears
@code{browse-url-handlers} before calling @code{org-open-at-point}.  This is
useful when you want to preview a web page without leaving Emacs.

@node Pasting clipboard content as Org
@subsection Pasting clipboard content as Org

@findex org-extras-paste-with-conversion
The command @code{org-extras-paste-with-conversion} converts the contents of
the system clipboard to Org mode format using Pandoc and inserts the
result at point.  If the clipboard contains HTML, it converts from HTML;
otherwise it converts from Markdown.  The command also cleans up stray
backslashes and non-breaking spaces that Pandoc sometimes produces.

Internally it calls @code{simple-extras-pandoc-convert} from @samp{simple-extras.el}.
For the reverse operation (copying Org as formatted HTML), see
@code{ox-clip-formatted-copy}.  For the Markdown equivalent, see
@code{markdown-mode-extras-paste-with-conversion} in @samp{markdown-mode-extras.el}.

@node Pasting images from the clipboard
@subsection Pasting images from the clipboard

@findex org-extras-paste-image
The command @code{org-extras-paste-image} saves the current clipboard image
to a file and inserts an Org file link at point.  It requires the
@samp{pngpaste} utility (installable via @samp{brew install pngpaste} on macOS).

The image is saved under @code{paths-dir-org-images} with a filename derived
from the current heading's Org ID and an incrementing counter to avoid
collisions.  After saving, the command prompts for an optional caption
and then calls @code{org-display-inline-images} to render the image inline.

@node Toggling inline images
@subsection Toggling inline images

@findex org-extras-inline-images
The command @code{org-extras-inline-images} toggles the display of inline
images in the current buffer.  When called interactively without a
prefix argument, it checks whether any inline image overlays already
exist: if they do, it removes them; otherwise it displays all images.

A numeric prefix argument provides explicit control: a negative value
removes images, while a positive value (or @code{nil} from Lisp) displays
them.  The symbol @code{toggle} may also be passed from Lisp for the
toggling behavior.

@node Agenda management
@section Agenda management

@menu
* Switching to today's agenda::
* Going to an agenda item and clocking in::
* Marking done and postponing::
* DWIM switching from agenda::
* Toggling anniversaries::
* Toggling log mode::
* Removing agenda highlighting::
@end menu

@node Switching to today's agenda
@subsection Switching to today's agenda

@findex org-extras-agenda-switch-to-agenda-current-day
The command @code{org-extras-agenda-switch-to-agenda-current-day} opens (or
switches to) the daily agenda in the left window of the frame.  It
calls @code{window-extras-split-if-unsplit} from @samp{window-extras.el} to
ensure the frame is split, then selects window 1 via @samp{winum}.  If the
agenda buffer already exists, it simply switches to it; otherwise it
creates a new agenda view, first enabling anniversary display
(@ref{Toggling anniversaries}).

@node Going to an agenda item and clocking in
@subsection Going to an agenda item and clocking in

@findex org-extras-agenda-goto-and-start-clock
The command @code{org-extras-agenda-goto-and-start-clock} navigates from the
Org agenda buffer to the source heading of the item at point and starts
the clock there.  It validates the agenda marker and offers to refresh
the agenda if the marker is stale.  This command must be called from an
@code{org-agenda-mode} buffer.

@node Marking done and postponing
@subsection Marking done and postponing

@findex org-extras-agenda-done-and-next
@findex org-extras-agenda-postpone-and-next
Two quick-action commands streamline common agenda operations.  The
command @code{org-extras-agenda-done-and-next} marks the item at point as
DONE and advances to the next line.  The command
@code{org-extras-agenda-postpone-and-next} pushes the scheduled date forward
by one day and advances to the next line.  Both are designed for rapid
triage of agenda items.

@node DWIM switching from agenda
@subsection DWIM switching from agenda

@findex org-extras-agenda-switch-to-dwim
The command @code{org-extras-agenda-switch-to-dwim} adapts its behavior based
on whether the agenda is showing log entries.  When
@code{org-agenda-show-log} is active, it calls
@code{org-clock-convenience-goto-ts} to jump to the clock timestamp in the
source file.  When log mode is off, it calls @code{org-agenda-switch-to} to
open the heading directly.

@node Toggling anniversaries
@subsection Toggling anniversaries

@findex org-extras-agenda-toggle-anniversaries
The command @code{org-extras-agenda-toggle-anniversaries} shows or hides BBDB
birthday entries in the agenda.  It works by navigating to the heading
specified by @code{org-extras-bbdb-anniversaries-heading}
(@ref{BBDB anniversaries heading}) and toggling the
@samp{%%(org-bbdb-anniversaries-future 1)} sexp line: if the line is present
it is deleted, and if it is absent it is inserted.  Unless the optional
JUST-ENABLE argument is non-nil, the agenda is refreshed afterwards.

This approach of commenting out the diary sexp is the only reliable way
to temporarily suppress anniversaries in the weekly/daily agenda view.

@node Toggling log mode
@subsection Toggling log mode

@findex org-extras-agenda-toggle-log-mode
The command @code{org-extras-agenda-toggle-log-mode} toggles
@code{org-agenda-log-mode} in clock-check mode, which shows or hides clock
entries in the agenda.

@node Removing agenda highlighting
@subsection Removing agenda highlighting

@findex org-extras-unhighlight
The command @code{org-extras-unhighlight} is a thin interactive wrapper
around @code{org-unhighlight}, which removes search highlighting from the
agenda buffer.

@node Clocking and timestamps
@section Clocking and timestamps

@menu
* Inserting clock entries::
* Inserting timestamps::
* Jumping to clock entries::
* Clock reports::
* Deleting headings without logbooks::
* Meeting participants::
@end menu

@node Inserting clock entries
@subsection Inserting clock entries

@findex org-extras-new-clock-entry-today
The command @code{org-extras-new-clock-entry-today} inserts a new CLOCK line
under the current heading with today's date.  It prompts for a begin
time and an end time (as strings such as @samp{"09:00"}), then jumps to the
latest existing clock entry via @code{org-extras-jump-to-latest-clock-entry}
(@ref{Jumping to clock entries}), opens a line above it, inserts the
formatted clock range, and evaluates the time range to compute the
duration.

@node Inserting timestamps
@subsection Inserting timestamps

@findex org-extras-time-stamp-active-current-time
@findex org-extras-time-stamp-inactive-current-time
@findex org-extras-time-stamp-active-current-date
@findex org-extras-time-stamp-inactive-current-date
Four commands insert timestamps with the current date or date-and-time:

@itemize
@item
@code{org-extras-time-stamp-active-current-time} inserts an active
timestamp with date and time, e.g. @samp{<2025-01-15 Wed 14:30>}.
@item
@code{org-extras-time-stamp-inactive-current-time} inserts an inactive
timestamp with date and time, e.g. @samp{[2025-01-15 Wed 14:30]}.
@item
@code{org-extras-time-stamp-active-current-date} inserts an active
timestamp with date only, e.g. @samp{<2025-01-15 Wed>}.
@item
@code{org-extras-time-stamp-inactive-current-date} inserts an inactive
timestamp with date only, e.g. @samp{[2025-01-15 Wed]}.
@end itemize

These are convenient when you need a timestamp at the current moment
without being prompted by the Org date picker.

@node Jumping to clock entries
@subsection Jumping to clock entries

@findex org-extras-jump-to-latest-clock-entry
The command @code{org-extras-jump-to-latest-clock-entry} enables
@code{visible-mode}, shows the logbook drawer via @code{org-extras-show-logbook}
(@ref{Showing drawers}), moves back to the current heading, and then
searches forward for the first CLOCK line.  Since clock entries are
stored in reverse chronological order, this effectively jumps to the
most recent clock entry.

@node Clock reports
@subsection Clock reports

@findex org-extras-clock-report-insert
The command @code{org-extras-clock-report-insert} prompts for a start date,
an end date, and a scope (@samp{agenda}, @samp{file}, or @samp{subtree}), then
inserts a clocktable dynamic block using the format string in
@code{org-extras-clock-report-parameters} (@ref{Clock report parameters}).
If the start and end dates are the same, a @samp{:block} parameter is used;
otherwise @samp{:tstart} and @samp{:tend} are used.  The clocktable is updated
immediately after insertion.

@node Deleting headings without logbooks
@subsection Deleting headings without logbooks

@findex org-extras-delete-headings-without-logbook
The command @code{org-extras-delete-headings-without-logbook} removes every
heading in the current buffer that does not contain a @samp{:LOGBOOK:}
drawer.  It prompts for confirmation before proceeding.  This is useful
for cleaning up files where only clocked entries are of interest.

@node Meeting participants
@subsection Meeting participants

@findex org-extras-add-participants
@findex org-extras-clock-in-add-participants
When clocking into a calendar event (a heading with a @samp{calendar-id}
property), it is useful to record who attended.  The function
@code{org-extras-clock-in-add-participants} is installed as @samp{:after} advice
on @code{org-clock-in}.  When the heading has a @samp{calendar-id} property and
does not already list participants (checked via
@code{org-extras-heading-has-participans-p}), it calls
@code{org-extras-add-participants}.  Headings matching the regexp in
@code{org-extras-clock-in-add-participants-exclude} are skipped
(@ref{Participant exclusion regexp}).

The command @code{org-extras-add-participants} can also be called
interactively.  It presents a @code{completing-read-multiple} prompt
populated with ``person'' nodes from Org Roam (via
@code{org-roam-extras-get-people} in @samp{org-roam-extras.el}), formats the
selected names as Org ID links, and inserts a ``Participants: @dots{}'' line
after the heading's metadata.

@node Folding cycling and narrowing
@section Folding, cycling, and narrowing

@menu
* Global cycling::
* Showing all headings::
* Showing drawers::
* Narrowing to entries::
@end menu

@node Global cycling
@subsection Global cycling

@findex org-extras-cycle-global
The command @code{org-extras-cycle-global} calls @code{org-cycle-global} and then
hides archived subtrees via @code{org-cycle-hide-archived-subtrees}.  Without
this, global cycling would reveal archived content that is normally meant
to stay hidden.  An optional prefix argument ARG works the same way as
in @code{org-cycle-global}: @samp{C-u} switches to startup visibility, a numeric
prefix shows all headlines up to that level.

@node Showing all headings
@subsection Showing all headings

@findex org-extras-fold-show-all-headings
The function @code{org-extras-fold-show-all-headings} expands all headings in
the buffer (using @code{org-fold-show-all} with the @samp{headings} argument)
while keeping archived subtrees hidden.  This is not an interactive
command but is designed to be called from hooks or other functions.

@node Showing drawers
@subsection Showing drawers

@findex org-extras-show-properties
@findex org-extras-show-logbook
The command @code{org-extras-show-properties} removes all overlays that hide
property drawers (those with the @samp{hidden-prop-drawer} property),
making them visible again.  It also updates the toggle state to
@samp{shown}.

The command @code{org-extras-show-logbook} does the same for logbook drawers
(overlays with the @samp{hidden-logbook-drawer} property).  Both commands are
useful after running packages that hide these drawers by default.

@node Narrowing to entries
@subsection Narrowing to entries

@findex org-extras-narrow-to-entry-and-children
@findex org-extras-narrow-to-entry-no-children
The command @code{org-extras-narrow-to-entry-and-children} narrows the buffer
to the current subtree and then shows the entry and its children while
hiding drawers (via @code{org-extras-show-subtree-hide-drawers}).  This gives
a focused view of the heading and all its descendants.

The command @code{org-extras-narrow-to-entry-no-children} narrows the buffer
to the current entry only, excluding any subheadings.  The narrowed
region extends from the beginning of the subtree to the next visible
heading.

@node ID management
@section ID management

@menu
* Automatic ID addition::
* Updating ID locations::
* Finding duplicate IDs::
* Processing duplicate IDs::
@end menu

@node Automatic ID addition
@subsection Automatic ID addition

@findex org-extras-id-auto-add-ids-to-headings-in-file
The function @code{org-extras-id-auto-add-ids-to-headings-in-file} is
intended to run from a hook (such as @code{before-save-hook}).  It adds Org
IDs to all headings in the current file that lack them, subject to
several exclusion conditions:

@itemize
@item
The file must be in @code{org-mode} and within @code{paths-dir-org}.
@item
The buffer must not be read-only.
@item
The buffer-local variable @code{org-extras-id-auto-add-exclude-file} must
be @code{nil} (@ref{Variables}).
@item
The file must not be inside a directory listed in
@code{org-extras-id-auto-add-excluded-directories}.
@item
The file must not match @code{org-extras-id-auto-add-excluded-files}.
@item
The current heading must not match
@code{org-extras-id-auto-add-excluded-headings}.
@item
For files in directories listed in
@code{org-extras-id-auto-add-level-1-dirs}, only level-1 headings receive
IDs.
@end itemize

See @ref{Automatic ID exclusions} for details on configuring
these options.

@node Updating ID locations
@subsection Updating ID locations

@findex org-extras-id-update-id-locations
The command @code{org-extras-id-update-id-locations} scans all @samp{.org} and
@samp{.org.gpg} files under @code{org-directory} (excluding those in @samp{.Trash}
directories or with carriage returns in their names) and updates the ID
location database via @code{org-id-update-id-locations}.  If the scan
reports duplicate IDs, the command automatically calls
@code{org-extras-id-find-duplicate-ids} (@ref{Finding duplicate IDs}) so
that you can review and resolve them.

Internally, it temporarily advises @code{display-warning} to intercept
``duplicate IDs found'' messages and trigger the duplicate-ID workflow.

@node Finding duplicate IDs
@subsection Finding duplicate IDs

@findex org-extras-id-find-duplicate-ids
The command @code{org-extras-id-find-duplicate-ids} parses the @samp{*Messages*}
buffer for ``Duplicate ID'' warnings produced by
@code{org-id-update-id-locations} and presents the results in a dedicated
read-only @samp{*Duplicate Org IDs*} buffer.  Each line shows a file path
followed by the duplicate ID@.  In this buffer, pressing @samp{SPC} calls
@code{org-extras-id-process-next-duplicate} to process the next entry.

@node Processing duplicate IDs
@subsection Processing duplicate IDs

@findex org-extras-id-process-next-duplicate
The command @code{org-extras-id-process-next-duplicate} is meant to be used
from the @samp{*Duplicate Org IDs*} buffer.  It reads the first line, opens
the associated file, widens the buffer, enables
@code{simple-extras-visible-mode-enhanced} to help locate the duplicate,
copies the ID to the kill ring, and removes the processed line from the
buffer.  When all entries have been processed, the buffer is killed
automatically.

@node List handling
@section List handling

@findex org-extras-mark-checkbox-complete-and-move-to-next-item
@findex org-extras-reset-checkbox-state-subtree
The command @code{org-extras-mark-checkbox-complete-and-move-to-next-item}
toggles the checkbox state at point (equivalent to @samp{C-c C-c}) and then
moves to the next list item.  This enables rapid checkbox processing
with a single repeated keystroke.

The command @code{org-extras-reset-checkbox-state-subtree} resets all
checkboxes in the current subtree to their unchecked state, then cycles
the subtree visibility twice to ensure a clean display without exposed
property drawers.

@node Refiling
@section Refiling

@menu
* Jumping to the latest refiled item::
* Refiling and archiving::
* Regenerating the refile cache::
@end menu

@node Jumping to the latest refiled item
@subsection Jumping to the latest refiled item

@findex org-extras-refile-goto-latest
The command @code{org-extras-refile-goto-latest} widens the buffer and calls
@code{org-refile} with a double prefix argument (@samp{C-u C-u}), which jumps to
the location of the most recently refiled item.  This is helpful when
you refile something and immediately want to continue working on it in
its new location.

@node Refiling and archiving
@subsection Refiling and archiving

@findex org-extras-refile-and-archive
The command @code{org-extras-refile-and-archive} performs two operations in
sequence: it refiles the current subtree (prompting for a target as
usual), then navigates to the refiled heading and archives it to its
archive sibling.  This is useful when an item has been completed and
should be both relocated and archived in one step.

@node Regenerating the refile cache
@subsection Regenerating the refile cache

@findex org-extras-refile-regenerate-cache
The command @code{org-extras-refile-regenerate-cache} clears the existing
@code{org-refile} target cache and rebuilds it from scratch.  This is needed
when refile targets have changed (files added, headings renamed) and the
cached completions are stale.

@node Links and sorting
@section Links and sorting

@menu
* Sorting links::
* Copying EWW content as Org::
@end menu

@node Sorting links
@subsection Sorting links

@findex org-extras-sort-links
@findex org-extras-sort-keywords
The command @code{org-extras-sort-links} sorts a paragraph of Org links
alphabetically.  It prompts for the separator string used between links
(for example, @samp{", "} or @samp{" | "}), splits the paragraph text on that
separator, sorts the resulting elements using @code{org-sort-list}, and
reassembles them.

The command @code{org-extras-sort-keywords} is a convenience wrapper that
calls @code{org-extras-sort-links} with the separator @samp{" . "} (bullet
separator), which is the convention used for keyword lists.

@node Copying EWW content as Org
@subsection Copying EWW content as Org

@findex org-extras-eww-copy-for-org-mode
The command @code{org-extras-eww-copy-for-org-mode} copies the content of an
EWW buffer (or the active region within it) to the kill ring, converting
HTML formatting to Org syntax.  Links become Org bracket links, bold
text is wrapped in @samp{*asterisks*}, italic text in @samp{/slashes/}, and HTML
bullet characters are replaced with Org list markers (@samp{-}).

This is an enhanced version of @code{org-eww-copy-for-org-mode} from the
@samp{ol-eww} library.

@node Babel and encryption
@section Babel and encryption

@menu
* Tangling::
* Decryption and clock evaluation::
@end menu

@node Tangling
@subsection Tangling

@findex org-extras-babel-tangle
The command @code{org-extras-babel-tangle} widens the buffer, saves it, and
then tangles all source blocks via @code{org-babel-tangle}.  Widening first
ensures that narrowed buffers are tangled completely.

@node Decryption and clock evaluation
@subsection Decryption and clock evaluation

@findex org-extras-crypt-dwim
The command @code{org-extras-crypt-dwim} inspects the Org element at point.
If point is on a clock line, it evaluates the time range (computing the
duration).  Otherwise, it decrypts the current entry via
@code{org-decrypt-entry}.  This DWIM behavior avoids the need for separate
key bindings for these two contextually distinct actions.  The command
signals an error if invoked outside an Org mode buffer.

@node External integration
@section External integration

@menu
* Importing from Google Drive::
* Removing trailing headings::
@end menu

@node Importing from Google Drive
@subsection Importing from Google Drive

@findex org-extras-import-from-google-drive
The command @code{org-extras-import-from-google-drive} prompts for a Google
Doc ID, downloads the document as a @samp{.docx} file using the @samp{gdrive} CLI
tool, and converts it to Org format using Pandoc.  Both output files are
saved in the downloads directory (@code{paths-dir-downloads}).  To find the
Doc ID, run @samp{gdrive list} in a terminal.

@node Removing trailing headings
@subsection Removing trailing headings

@findex org-extras-remove-trailing-heading
The command @code{org-extras-remove-trailing-heading} removes the last
heading in the buffer if it is empty (has no heading text).  This is
intended for use as a hook function (for example, via a directory-local
variable) in directories such as @samp{gptel} notes, where automated
processes sometimes create spurious empty headings that trigger warnings
from @code{org-roam}.

@node Transient menus
@section Transient menus

@findex org-extras-personal-menu
@findex org-extras-tlon-menu
@findex org-extras-config-dispatch
@samp{org-extras.el} provides three transient menus for quick navigation to
frequently visited Org Roam nodes and configuration sections.

The command @code{org-extras-personal-menu} opens a menu of personal projects
and recurring tasks, including entries for email, finance, Anki,
YouTube, and language study.  Each menu item navigates to a specific Org
Roam node by ID@.

The command @code{org-extras-tlon-menu} opens a menu organized into three
columns: languages (with two-letter language codes as keys), projects
(such as @samp{aea}, @samp{boletin}, @samp{utilitarianism}), and other items.  This
is designed for navigating the Tlon project ecosystem.

The command @code{org-extras-config-dispatch} opens a menu for jumping to
sections within the main @samp{config.org} file.  It includes entries for
major configuration areas (Calc, Dired, Elfeed, Files, Display, and so
on) as well as Org-specific subsections (org-agenda, org-capture,
org-roam, and others).

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

@menu
* Link helpers::
* Heading content helpers::
* Productivity tracking::
* Image filename generation::
* Capture hook function::
* Clocktable sorting::
* Heading navigation::
* Subtree display helpers::
* Babel evaluation::
* Refiling helpers::
* Linkifying elements::
* Participant checking::
* ID update warning handler::
@end menu

@node Link helpers
@section Link helpers

@findex org-extras-link-get-thing-at-point
The function @code{org-extras-link-get-thing-at-point} is the shared
implementation behind the link extraction commands (@ref{Copying URLs and links, , Copying URLs and
links}).  It takes a numeric ARG: 0 for the full bracket link syntax,
1 for the URL, and 2 for the description.  When point is inside an Org
bracket link, it extracts the requested component and adds it to the
kill ring.

@node Heading content helpers
@section Heading content helpers

@findex org-extras-get-heading-contents
The function @code{org-extras-get-heading-contents} returns the body text of
the heading at point as a string, excluding the heading line and any
child subtrees.  If point is before the first heading, it displays a
message and returns @code{nil}.  It uses @code{org-agenda-get-some-entry-text}
with @code{most-positive-fixnum} as the line limit to retrieve the full body
text.

@node Productivity tracking
@section Productivity tracking

@findex org-extras-count-lines-with-expression
@findex org-extras-productivity-of-the-day
The function @code{org-extras-count-lines-with-expression} counts lines in a
string S that match a regexp EXP@.  It is used internally by
@code{org-extras-productivity-of-the-day}.

The function @code{org-extras-productivity-of-the-day} computes how many TODO
lines were added and removed across all agenda files since midnight,
using @samp{git log} to analyze the diffs.  It returns a cons cell of
@samp{(added . removed)} counts.

@node Image filename generation
@section Image filename generation

@findex org-extras-make-image-filename
The function @code{org-extras-make-image-filename} generates a unique
filename for pasted images (@ref{Pasting images from the clipboard}).  It
concatenates @code{paths-dir-org-images}, the current heading's Org ID
(creating one if necessary), and a zero-padded counter suffix (e.g.,
@samp{-001.png}).

@node Capture hook function
@section Capture hook function

@findex org-extras-capture-before-finalize-hook-function
The function @code{org-extras-capture-before-finalize-hook-function} is
designed for @code{org-capture-before-finalize-hook}.  It dispatches on the
capture template key (from @code{org-capture-plist}) and performs
template-specific actions:

@itemize
@item
@samp{"l"}: aligns tags and changes the dictionary to English.
@item
@samp{"la"}: switches to the alternate buffer, adjusts Org Roam tags
(removing ``unprocessed'', ``empty'', etc., adding ``leo''), and inserts a
formatted reference.
@item
@samp{"le"}: similar to @samp{"la"} but inserts a rename reference.
@item
@samp{"s"}: converts an @samp{emacs-slack} link to an external Slack URL@.
@item
@samp{"tmt"}: inserts a web link for the URL on the kill ring.
@item
@samp{"v"}: demotes the captured heading.
@item
@samp{"y"}: downloads a YouTube video from the URL on the kill ring.
@end itemize

@node Clocktable sorting
@section Clocktable sorting

@findex org-extras-clocktable-sorter
The function @code{org-extras-clocktable-sorter} is suitable as a value for
@code{org-clock-clocktable-formatter}.  It sorts clock table entries by
duration in descending order (longest first) before passing them to the
default formatter @code{org-clocktable-write-default}.  The function
signature @samp{(ipos tables params)} matches what the clocktable formatting
machinery expects.

@node Heading navigation
@section Heading navigation

@findex org-extras-goto-beginning-of-heading-text
The function @code{org-extras-goto-beginning-of-heading-text} moves point to
the beginning of the headline text, after the stars, TODO keyword, and
priority cookie (if present).  It uses @code{org-special-ctrl-a/e} to
leverage Org's built-in smart movement and also handles the edge case
where a heading consists of a TODO status followed by a single trailing
space.

@node Subtree display helpers
@section Subtree display helpers

@findex org-extras-show-subtree-hide-drawers
The function @code{org-extras-show-subtree-hide-drawers} hides the entire
subtree, then shows the entry and its children.  This sequence results
in the heading body and child headings being visible while drawers
remain folded.  It is used internally by
@code{org-extras-narrow-to-entry-and-children} (@ref{Narrowing to entries}).

@node Babel evaluation
@section Babel evaluation

@findex org-extras-confirm-babel-evaluate
The function @code{org-extras-confirm-babel-evaluate} is suitable as a value
for @code{org-confirm-babel-evaluate}.  It receives the language name LANG
and returns non-nil when the language is a member of
@code{org-extras-confirm-babel-evaluate-languages} (@ref{Babel evaluation languages, , Babel evaluation
languages}), indicating that no confirmation is needed for that
language.

@node Refiling helpers
@section Refiling helpers

@findex org-extras-refile-at-position
@findex org-extras-refile-to
The function @code{org-extras-refile-at-position} refiles the current subtree
to a specific character POSITION in the current buffer's file.  It calls
@code{org-refile} with a constructed target list.

The function @code{org-extras-refile-to} refiles the current subtree to a
specific HEADING in a given FILE@.  It first finds the heading's position
using @code{org-find-exact-headline-in-buffer} and then calls @code{org-refile}.

@node Linkifying elements
@section Linkifying elements

@findex org-extras-linkify-elements
The function @code{org-extras-linkify-elements} takes a list of STRINGS and
looks up each one in the Org Roam node database.  For strings that match
a node title (case-insensitively), it returns an Org ID link; for
strings with no matching node, it returns the original string unchanged.
The results are joined with SEPARATOR (defaulting to @samp{" . "}).

@node Participant checking
@section Participant checking

@findex org-extras-heading-has-participans-p
The function @code{org-extras-heading-has-participans-p} returns @code{t} if the
current heading already has a line beginning with the participants
introducer string.  It is used by @code{org-extras-clock-in-add-participants}
to avoid adding duplicate participant lines (@ref{Meeting participants}).

@node ID update warning handler
@section ID update warning handler

@findex org-extras--id-update-warning-handler
The function @code{org-extras--id-update-warning-handler} is installed as
advice on @code{display-warning} during @code{org-extras-id-update-id-locations}
(@ref{Updating ID locations}).  When it detects a warning at level
@code{emacs} containing the string ``duplicate IDs found'', it calls
@code{org-extras-id-find-duplicate-ids} to present the duplicates for review.

@node Variables
@chapter Variables

@vindex org-extras-id-auto-add-exclude-file
The buffer-local variable @code{org-extras-id-auto-add-exclude-file}
provides a per-file override for the automatic ID addition machinery
(@ref{Automatic ID addition}).  When set to a non-nil value (typically
via a file-local variable), it prevents
@code{org-extras-id-auto-add-ids-to-headings-in-file} from adding IDs in
that buffer, regardless of other exclusion settings.  The default value
is @code{nil}.

@vindex org-extras-agenda-switch-to-agenda-current-day-timer
The variable @code{org-extras-agenda-switch-to-agenda-current-day-timer}
holds a timer object (or @code{nil}) that can be used to schedule periodic
switches to the current day's agenda view.

@vindex org-extras-particiants-introducer
The constant @code{org-extras-particiants-introducer} holds the string
@samp{"Participants: "} that prefixes the list of meeting participants
inserted by @code{org-extras-add-participants} (@ref{Meeting participants}).

@node Patched functions
@chapter Patched functions

@samp{org-extras.el} uses @samp{el-patch} to modify three upstream Org functions.

@menu
* Clock resolution scope::
* Agenda file checking::
* Citation insertion::
@end menu

@node Clock resolution scope
@section Clock resolution scope

@findex org-resolve-clocks
The function @code{org-resolve-clocks} is patched to use @code{org-agenda-files}
instead of @code{org-files-list} when searching for open clocks to resolve.
This limits the search scope to agenda files rather than all known Org
files, which avoids scanning irrelevant files and reduces the chance of
encountering stale clocks in archived or rarely opened files.

@node Agenda file checking
@section Agenda file checking

@findex org-check-agenda-file
The function @code{org-check-agenda-file} is patched to silently remove
non-existent files from the agenda file list instead of repeatedly
prompting the user.  The upstream version asks ``[R]emove from list or
[A]bort?'' for each missing file, which becomes tedious when multiple
files are missing.

@node Citation insertion
@section Citation insertion

@findex org-cite-insert
The function @code{org-cite-insert} is patched to remove the
@code{org-cite--allowed-p} guard, allowing the command to be invoked in
contexts where citation insertion would normally be disallowed.  This is
useful because even when a citation cannot be inserted, invoking the
command can trigger contextual actions via @samp{embark}.

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
