\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename paths.info
@settitle paths: Personal path definitions
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* Paths: (paths).       Personal path definitions for Emacs.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title paths: Personal path definitions
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top paths: Personal path definitions

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{paths.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* User options::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

User options

* Directory paths::
* File paths::
* Other identifiers::

Directory paths

* Core directories::
* Dropbox directories::
* Emacs configuration directories::
* Google Drive directories::
* Repository directories::
* CSL directories::
* Tlon Dropbox and Google Drive directories::
* Org directories::

File paths

* Org files::
* Bibliography files::
* Ledger files::
* Feed and task files::
* Template files::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{paths.el} provides a centralized registry of filesystem paths used across the Emacs configuration. Rather than scattering hard-coded paths through dozens of packages, this file defines every important directory and file location as a @code{defcustom} variable. Other packages reference these variables (e.g. @code{paths-dir-notes}, @code{paths-file-config}) instead of constructing paths themselves.

This approach has two advantages. First, it makes the configuration portable: when the filesystem layout changes (a new machine, a different Dropbox location, or a different user account), only the variables in @samp{paths.el} need updating. Second, it provides discoverability: all known directories and files are visible in one place, with their relationships made explicit through nesting (e.g. @code{paths-dir-music-tango} is defined relative to @code{paths-dir-music}, which is relative to @code{paths-dir-google-drive}).

The variables are organized into three groups: directories (@ref{Directory paths}), files (@ref{File paths}), and other identifiers (@ref{Other identifiers}).

@node User options
@chapter User options

@menu
* Directory paths::
* File paths::
* Other identifiers::
@end menu

@node Directory paths
@section Directory paths

The directory variables define the filesystem tree used by the Emacs configuration. They form a hierarchy where child directories are constructed from parent variables using @code{file-name-concat}, so changing a parent automatically adjusts all children.

@menu
* Core directories::
* Dropbox directories::
* Emacs configuration directories::
* Google Drive directories::
* Repository directories::
* CSL directories::
* Tlon Dropbox and Google Drive directories::
* Org directories::
@end menu

@node Core directories
@subsection Core directories

@vindex paths-dir-root
@vindex paths-dir-downloads
@vindex paths-dir-system-apps
@vindex paths-dir-dropbox
@vindex paths-dir-google-drive
@vindex paths-dir-emacs
@vindex paths-dir-emacs-profiles
The following variables define the top-level directories from which most other paths derive:

@itemize
@item
@code{paths-dir-root} (default: @samp{"/"}): the filesystem root.
@item
@code{paths-dir-downloads} (default: @samp{~/Downloads/}): the system downloads directory.
@item
@code{paths-dir-system-apps} (default: @samp{/Applications/}): the macOS applications directory.
@item
@code{paths-dir-dropbox} (default: @samp{~/Library/CloudStorage/Dropbox/}): the Dropbox sync directory. Many personal data directories are children of this path.
@item
@code{paths-dir-google-drive} (default: @samp{~/My Drive/}): the Google Drive sync directory. Library and media directories are children of this path.
@item
@code{paths-dir-emacs} (default: @code{user-emacs-directory}): the Emacs configuration directory.
@item
@code{paths-dir-emacs-profiles} (default: @samp{~/.config/emacs-profiles/}): the directory containing multiple Emacs profiles.
@end itemize

@node Dropbox directories
@subsection Dropbox directories

@vindex paths-dir-dotfiles
@vindex paths-dir-dotemacs
@vindex paths-dir-notes
@vindex paths-dir-journal
@vindex paths-dir-wiki
@vindex paths-dir-wiki-entries
@vindex paths-dir-wiki-references
@vindex paths-dir-blog
@vindex paths-dir-anki
@vindex paths-dir-archive
@vindex paths-dir-inactive
@vindex paths-dir-android
@vindex paths-dir-bbdb
@vindex paths-dir-people
@vindex paths-dir-ledger
@vindex paths-dir-bibliographic-notes
@vindex paths-dir-private
@vindex paths-dir-websites
@vindex paths-dir-personal-bibliography
@vindex paths-dir-PW
These directories are children of @code{paths-dir-dropbox} and contain personal data:

@itemize
@item
@code{paths-dir-dotfiles}: the dotfiles repository (default: @samp{Dropbox/dotfiles/}).
@item
@code{paths-dir-dotemacs}: the Emacs subdirectory within dotfiles. Its default is user-dependent, resolved at load time based on the @samp{$HOME} environment variable.
@item
@code{paths-dir-notes}, @code{paths-dir-journal}, @code{paths-dir-wiki}: directories for Org notes, journal entries, and wiki content.
@item
@code{paths-dir-wiki-entries} and @code{paths-dir-wiki-references}: subdirectories of the wiki.
@item
@code{paths-dir-blog}: the blog directory.
@item
@code{paths-dir-anki}: the Anki-related Org files.
@item
@code{paths-dir-archive} and @code{paths-dir-inactive}: directories for archived and inactive content.
@item
@code{paths-dir-android}: files synced with an Android device.
@item
@code{paths-dir-bbdb}, @code{paths-dir-people}: contact databases.
@item
@code{paths-dir-ledger}: plain-text accounting files.
@item
@code{paths-dir-bibliographic-notes}: notes attached to bibliographic entries.
@item
@code{paths-dir-private}: private dotfiles not committed to the public repo.
@item
@code{paths-dir-websites}: website source files.
@item
@code{paths-dir-personal-bibliography}: Bib@TeX{} bibliography files and related resources.
@item
@code{paths-dir-PW}: the PW project directory.
@end itemize

@node Emacs configuration directories
@subsection Emacs configuration directories

@vindex paths-dir-karabiner
@vindex paths-dir-yasnippets
@vindex paths-dir-yasnippets-private
@vindex paths-dir-abbrev
@vindex paths-dir-emacs-var
@vindex paths-dir-emacs-local
@vindex paths-dir-init-default
These directories hold Emacs configuration artifacts:

@itemize
@item
@code{paths-dir-karabiner}: Karabiner dotfiles (child of @code{paths-dir-dotfiles}).
@item
@code{paths-dir-yasnippets} and @code{paths-dir-yasnippets-private}: snippet collections (children of @code{paths-dir-dotemacs}).
@item
@code{paths-dir-abbrev}: abbreviation definitions (child of @code{paths-dir-dotemacs}).
@item
@code{paths-dir-emacs-var} and @code{paths-dir-emacs-local}: runtime data directories (children of @code{paths-dir-emacs}).
@item
@code{paths-dir-init-default}: default target for tangled init files (default: the @samp{develop/} profile under @code{paths-dir-emacs-profiles}).
@end itemize

@node Google Drive directories
@subsection Google Drive directories

@vindex paths-dir-pdf-library
@vindex paths-dir-html-library
@vindex paths-dir-media-library
@vindex paths-dir-music
@vindex paths-dir-movies
@vindex paths-dir-finance
@vindex paths-dir-audiobooks
@vindex paths-dir-org-images
These directories are children of @code{paths-dir-google-drive} and contain media and library content:

@itemize
@item
@code{paths-dir-pdf-library}, @code{paths-dir-html-library}, @code{paths-dir-media-library}: document and media libraries.
@item
@code{paths-dir-music}: the root music directory, with children @code{paths-dir-music-tango}, @code{paths-dir-music-popular}, @code{paths-dir-music-classical}, and @code{paths-dir-music-to-sort} for genre subdirectories.
@item
@code{paths-dir-movies}: the movies directory (default: @samp{~/movies/}).
@item
@code{paths-dir-finance}: financial documents.
@item
@code{paths-dir-audiobooks}: audiobook files.
@item
@code{paths-dir-org-images}: images embedded in Org files.
@end itemize

@vindex paths-dir-music-tango
@vindex paths-dir-music-popular
@vindex paths-dir-music-classical
@vindex paths-dir-music-to-sort

@node Repository directories
@subsection Repository directories

@vindex paths-dir-external-repos
@vindex paths-dir-tlon-repos
@vindex paths-dir-personal-repos
@vindex paths-dir-tlon-todos
@vindex paths-dir-tlon-docs
@vindex paths-dir-babel-refs
@vindex paths-dir-translation-server
@vindex paths-dir-split-git
@vindex paths-dir-all-repos
These directories organize Git repositories by provenance:

@itemize
@item
@code{paths-dir-external-repos} (default: @samp{~/source/}): third-party repositories.
@item
@code{paths-dir-tlon-repos} and @code{paths-dir-personal-repos} (both default to @samp{Dropbox/repos/}): organization and personal repositories.
@item
@code{paths-dir-tlon-todos}: Org files for organization task tracking.
@item
@code{paths-dir-tlon-docs}, @code{paths-dir-babel-refs}, @code{paths-dir-translation-server}: specific repositories.
@item
@code{paths-dir-split-git} (default: @samp{~/git-dirs/}): bare @samp{.git} directories for split-worktree repos.
@item
@code{paths-dir-all-repos}: a list aggregating several personal data directories for use in search and agenda commands.
@end itemize

@node CSL directories
@subsection CSL directories

@vindex paths-dir-personal-csl-styles
@vindex paths-dir-personal-csl-locales
@vindex paths-dir-tlon-csl-styles
@vindex paths-dir-tlon-csl-locales
These directories hold Citation Style Language resources, used by @samp{citeproc-el} and related bibliography tools:

@itemize
@item
@code{paths-dir-personal-csl-styles} and @code{paths-dir-personal-csl-locales}: personal CSL files (children of @code{paths-dir-personal-bibliography}).
@item
@code{paths-dir-tlon-csl-styles} and @code{paths-dir-tlon-csl-locales}: organization CSL files (children of @code{paths-dir-babel-refs}).
@end itemize

@node Tlon Dropbox and Google Drive directories
@subsection Tlon Dropbox and Google Drive directories

@vindex paths-dir-dropbox-tlon
@vindex paths-dir-dropbox-tlon-core
@vindex paths-dir-dropbox-tlon-leo
@vindex paths-dir-dropbox-tlon-fede
@vindex paths-dir-dropbox-tlon-pablo
@vindex paths-dir-dropbox-tlon-ledger
@vindex paths-dir-dropbox-tlon-pass
@vindex paths-dir-google-drive-tlon
@vindex paths-dir-google-drive-tlon-leo
@vindex paths-dir-google-drive-tlon-core
@vindex paths-dir-google-drive-tlon-fede
These directories organize shared team resources across Dropbox and Google Drive. Each team member has a personal subdirectory, and shared resources (ledger, pass) live under the @samp{core} subdirectory.

The Dropbox tree includes per-project directories for various organization projects:

@vindex paths-dir-dropbox-tlon-EAN
@vindex paths-dir-dropbox-tlon-FM
@vindex paths-dir-dropbox-tlon-GPE
@vindex paths-dir-dropbox-tlon-HEAR
@vindex paths-dir-dropbox-tlon-LBDLH
@vindex paths-dir-dropbox-tlon-LP
@vindex paths-dir-dropbox-tlon-RAE
@vindex paths-dir-dropbox-tlon-RCG

The Google Drive tree mirrors this structure:

@vindex paths-dir-google-drive-tlon-EAN
@vindex paths-dir-google-drive-tlon-FM
@vindex paths-dir-google-drive-tlon-GPE
@vindex paths-dir-google-drive-tlon-HEAR
@vindex paths-dir-google-drive-tlon-LBDLH
@vindex paths-dir-google-drive-tlon-LP
@vindex paths-dir-google-drive-tlon-RAE
@vindex paths-dir-google-drive-tlon-RCG

@node Org directories
@subsection Org directories

@vindex paths-dir-org
@vindex paths-dir-org-roam
The variable @code{paths-dir-org} specifies the root directory for Org files, intended to be used as the value of @code{org-directory}. The default is @code{paths-dir-dropbox}.

The variable @code{paths-dir-org-roam} specifies the Org-roam directory, intended for @code{org-roam-directory}. The default is the same as @code{paths-dir-org}.

@node File paths
@section File paths

@menu
* Org files::
* Bibliography files::
* Ledger files::
* Feed and task files::
* Template files::
@end menu

@node Org files
@subsection Org files

@vindex paths-file-notes
@vindex paths-file-inbox-desktop
@vindex paths-file-inbox-mobile
@vindex paths-file-calendar
@vindex paths-file-feeds-pablo
@vindex paths-file-anki
@vindex paths-file-config
@vindex paths-file-karabiner
@vindex paths-file-wiki-notes
@vindex paths-file-wiki-published
@vindex paths-file-wiki-help
@vindex paths-file-quotes
@vindex paths-file-films
@vindex paths-file-metaculus
@vindex paths-file-fm
@vindex paths-file-ean
@vindex paths-file-work
@vindex paths-file-tlon
These variables point to individual Org files used for task management, knowledge capture, and project tracking. Notable entries include:

@itemize
@item
@code{paths-file-notes} (@samp{notes/notes.org}): the main notes file.
@item
@code{paths-file-inbox-desktop} and @code{paths-file-inbox-mobile}: capture inboxes for desktop and mobile.
@item
@code{paths-file-calendar} (@samp{android/calendar.org}): the calendar file synced with a mobile device.
@item
@code{paths-file-anki} (@samp{anki/main.org}): the Anki flashcard source file.
@item
@code{paths-file-config} (@samp{emacs/config.org}): the literate Emacs configuration.
@item
@code{paths-file-karabiner}: the Karabiner keyboard customization file in Org format.
@item
@code{paths-file-work}: the work dashboard.
@end itemize

@node Bibliography files
@subsection Bibliography files

@vindex paths-file-personal-bibliography-old
@vindex paths-file-personal-bibliography-new
@vindex paths-files-bibliography-personal
@vindex paths-files-bibliography-all
The bibliography variables define Bib@TeX{} database files:

@itemize
@item
@code{paths-file-personal-bibliography-new} (@samp{new.bib}) and @code{paths-file-personal-bibliography-old} (@samp{old.bib}): the active and legacy bibliography files.
@item
@code{paths-files-bibliography-personal}: a list containing both personal bibliography files, suitable for passing to @samp{ebib} or @samp{citar}.
@item
@code{paths-files-bibliography-all}: a list of all bibliography files, including both personal and organization files. Defaults to an empty list; organization packages append their files at load time.
@end itemize

@node Ledger files
@subsection Ledger files

@vindex paths-file-ledger
@vindex paths-file-ledger-db
@vindex paths-file-tlon-ledger
@vindex paths-file-tlon-ledger-schedule-file
The ledger variables point to plain-text accounting files:

@itemize
@item
@code{paths-file-ledger}: the personal ledger journal file.
@item
@code{paths-file-ledger-db}: the ledger price database.
@item
@code{paths-file-tlon-ledger}: the organization ledger journal.
@item
@code{paths-file-tlon-ledger-schedule-file}: the organization ledger scheduler.
@end itemize

@node Feed and task files
@subsection Feed and task files

@vindex paths-file-tlon-feeds
@vindex paths-file-tlon-tareas-leo
@vindex paths-file-tlon-tareas-fede
@vindex paths-file-org2blog
These variables point to RSS feed definitions and team task files:

@itemize
@item
@code{paths-file-tlon-feeds}: the organization feeds file.
@item
@code{paths-file-tlon-tareas-leo} and @code{paths-file-tlon-tareas-fede}: per-person task files.
@item
@code{paths-file-org2blog}: the org2blog configuration file.
@end itemize

@node Template files
@subsection Template files

@vindex paths-file-orb-noter-template
@vindex paths-file-orb-capture-template
@vindex paths-file-bookmarks
@vindex paths-file-init-tangle-flags-sans-directory
These variables point to template and configuration files:

@itemize
@item
@code{paths-file-orb-noter-template}: the Org-noter template for bibliographic notes.
@item
@code{paths-file-orb-capture-template}: the Org-roam-bibtex capture template. Uses @samp{$@{citekey@}} as a placeholder in the filename.
@item
@code{paths-file-bookmarks}: the Emacs bookmarks file.
@item
@code{paths-file-init-tangle-flags-sans-directory}: the filename (without directory) for user-specific tangle flags (default: @samp{tangle-flags-pablo.el}).
@end itemize

@node Other identifiers
@section Other identifiers

@vindex paths-tlon-todos-generic-id
@vindex paths-tlon-todos-jobs-id
The variable @code{paths-tlon-todos-generic-id} holds the Org ID of the heading where generic (non-translation-job) TODOs are stored. The variable @code{paths-tlon-todos-jobs-id} holds the Org ID of the heading where translation job TODOs are stored. Both are UUIDs used by @code{org-id-goto} and related functions to jump directly to the right location.

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
