\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename vc-extras.info
@settitle vc-extras: Extensions for version control
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* VC Extras: (vc-extras). Extensions for version control.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title vc-extras: Extensions for version control
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top vc-extras: Extensions for version control

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{vc-extras.el}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* User options::
* Commands::
* Functions::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

User options

* GitHub account configuration::
* Profile system::
* Git directory splitting::

Commands

* Creating repositories::
* Cloning repositories::
* Renaming repositories::
* Deleting local repositories::
* Splitting the git directory::
* Checking authentication::
* Stripping diff markers::
* Transient menu::

Functions

* Repository information::
* GitHub CLI operations::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{vc-extras.el} extends Emacs' built-in @samp{vc.el} with commands for
managing GitHub repositories through the @samp{gh} CLI tool.  It depends on
the @samp{paths} package for directory constants and on @samp{transient} for its
command menu.

The package provides a complete repository lifecycle from within Emacs:
creating repositories on GitHub, cloning them locally (with submodule
support), renaming them (both locally and on GitHub), and deleting local
copies.  It supports multiple GitHub accounts through a profile system
that associates each account with a local directory, so cloned
repositories automatically land in the right place.

A distinctive feature is the ability to ``split'' the @samp{.git} directory out
of the repository's working tree into a centralized location.  This is
useful when the working tree resides in a synced folder (such as
Dropbox) and you want to avoid syncing the often-large @samp{.git} directory.
The splitting replaces the @samp{.git} directory with a small text file
containing a @samp{gitdir:} pointer, a mechanism natively supported by Git.

All major operations are accessible through the @code{vc-extras-menu}
transient (@ref{Transient menu}).

@node User options
@chapter User options

@menu
* GitHub account configuration::
* Profile system::
* Git directory splitting::
@end menu

@node GitHub account configuration
@section GitHub account configuration

@vindex vc-extras-gh-executable
@vindex vc-extras-github-account-personal
@vindex vc-extras-github-account-work
@vindex vc-extras-personal-repo-dir
@vindex vc-extras-work-repo-dir
The user option @code{vc-extras-gh-executable} specifies the path to the
@samp{gh} CLI executable.  It defaults to the result of @code{executable-find}, so
it is typically auto-detected.  If @samp{gh} is not in your @samp{PATH}, set this
to the full path.

The user option @code{vc-extras-github-account-personal} specifies the GitHub
username for the personal profile.  The default value is @samp{"benthamite"}.

The user option @code{vc-extras-github-account-work} specifies the GitHub
username or organization name for the work profile.  The default value
is @samp{"tlon-team"}.

The user option @code{vc-extras-personal-repo-dir} specifies the local
directory where personal repositories are stored.  It defaults to the
value of @code{paths-dir-personal-repos}.

The user option @code{vc-extras-work-repo-dir} specifies the local directory
where work repositories are stored.  It defaults to the value of
@code{paths-dir-tlon-repos}.

@node Profile system
@section Profile system

@vindex vc-extras-profiles
The user option @code{vc-extras-profiles} defines a list of GitHub profiles.
Each profile is a property list with three keys: @code{:name} (a symbol like
@code{personal} or @code{work}), @code{:account} (the GitHub username string), and
@code{:dir} (the local directory path for repositories belonging to that
account).

The profile system drives most of the package's behavior.  When cloning
a repository, the account determines the target directory.  When
listing local repositories for deletion or renaming, all profile
directories are searched.  The default value defines two profiles
matching the personal and work accounts described above.

@node Git directory splitting
@section Git directory splitting

@vindex vc-extras-split-repo
The user option @code{vc-extras-split-repo} controls whether the @samp{.git}
directory should be moved to a separate centralized location when
cloning a repository (@ref{Splitting the git directory}).

The accepted values are:

@itemize
@item
@code{nil}: never split.
@item
@code{prompt} (the default): ask the user each time.
@item
@code{t} (or any other non-@code{nil} value): always split.
@end itemize

This option only affects the behavior of @code{vc-extras-clone-repo}.  You
can always split an existing repository manually with
@code{vc-extras-split-local-repo}.

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Creating repositories::
* Cloning repositories::
* Renaming repositories::
* Deleting local repositories::
* Splitting the git directory::
* Checking authentication::
* Stripping diff markers::
* Transient menu::
@end menu

@node Creating repositories
@section Creating repositories

@findex vc-extras-create-repo
The command @code{vc-extras-create-repo} creates a new repository on GitHub
using the @samp{gh} CLI@.  It prompts for a name, an account (from the
profiles in @code{vc-extras-profiles}), a description, and whether the
repository should be private.  After creation, it offers to clone the
new repository locally using @code{vc-extras-clone-repo}
(@ref{Cloning repositories}).

@node Cloning repositories
@section Cloning repositories

@findex vc-extras-clone-repo
The command @code{vc-extras-clone-repo} clones a GitHub repository into the
local directory associated with the repository's account.  When called
without arguments, it fetches the list of repositories from GitHub (via
@samp{gh repo list}) and presents them for completion.

The clone uses @samp{git clone --recurse-submodules} to ensure submodules
are initialized.  After cloning, the command:

@enumerate
@item
Initializes and updates submodules, then checks out the default
branch (@samp{main} or @samp{master}) in each submodule.
@item
Optionally splits the @samp{.git} directory based on the
@code{vc-extras-split-repo} user option (@ref{Git directory splitting}).
@item
Optionally prompts to add the repository to Forge (via
@code{forge-extras-track-repository}), unless the NO-FORGE argument is
non-@code{nil}.
@end enumerate

With a prefix argument, the command prompts for the parent directory
instead of using the account's default directory.

The clone runs asynchronously and reports progress via messages.

@node Renaming repositories
@section Renaming repositories

@findex vc-extras-rename-repo
The command @code{vc-extras-rename-repo} renames a repository both locally
and on GitHub.  It prompts for the repository to rename (with
completion from local repositories), the new name, and the account if
it cannot be determined automatically.

The command performs four operations:

@enumerate
@item
Renames the local directory.
@item
Renames the split @samp{.git} directory (if one exists) and updates the
@samp{.git} pointer file.
@item
Renames the repository on GitHub via the @samp{gh} API@.
@item
Updates the Git remote URL in the local configuration.
@end enumerate

If any step fails (e.g., the remote rename returns an error), the
command reports a warning but continues with the remaining steps.

@node Deleting local repositories
@section Deleting local repositories

@findex vc-extras-delete-local-repo
The command @code{vc-extras-delete-local-repo} deletes a local Git
repository.  It prompts for the repository name with completion from
all local Git repositories found in the profile directories.

The command deletes both the main repository directory (if it exists and
is a Git repository) and the corresponding split @samp{.git} directory in
@code{paths-dir-split-git} (if it exists).  A message lists the directories
that were actually deleted.

@node Splitting the git directory
@section Splitting the git directory

@findex vc-extras-split-local-repo
The command @code{vc-extras-split-local-repo} moves the @samp{.git} directory
from a repository to a centralized location under @code{paths-dir-split-git}
and replaces it with a @samp{.git} file containing a @samp{gitdir:} pointer.
This is useful when the working tree is in a synced folder (e.g.,
Dropbox) and you want to avoid syncing the potentially large @samp{.git}
directory.

If the repository has submodules, the command also updates their @samp{.git}
pointer files and runs @code{git submodule sync --recursive} to ensure
everything remains consistent.

@node Checking authentication
@section Checking authentication

@findex vc-extras-check-gh-authenticated
The command @code{vc-extras-check-gh-authenticated} verifies that the @samp{gh}
CLI is properly authenticated by running @samp{gh auth status}.  It displays
a success message or signals an error with instructions to authenticate.

@node Stripping diff markers
@section Stripping diff markers

@findex vc-extras-strip-diff-markers
The command @code{vc-extras-strip-diff-markers} removes leading @samp{+} or @samp{-}
characters from each line in the active region.  This is useful when you
paste diff output into a buffer and want to clean it up into plain text.

@node Transient menu
@section Transient menu

@findex vc-extras-menu
The command @code{vc-extras-menu} presents a transient menu providing quick
access to all major @samp{vc-extras} commands: creating, cloning (with and
without directory confirmation), splitting, renaming, deleting, and
checking authentication status.

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

@menu
* Repository information::
* GitHub CLI operations::
@end menu

@node Repository information
@section Repository information

@findex vc-extras-is-git-dir-p
@findex vc-extras-has-submodules-p
@findex vc-extras-get-github-remote
@findex vc-extras-get-account-of-name
@findex vc-extras-get-account-prop
@findex vc-extras-get-repo-dir
@findex vc-extras-resolve-repo-dir
@findex vc-extras-list-local-candidates
The function @code{vc-extras-is-git-dir-p} returns non-@code{nil} if a directory
is recognized as a Git repository by @code{vc-responsible-backend}.

The function @code{vc-extras-has-submodules-p} checks whether a @samp{.gitmodules}
file exists in a directory, indicating that the repository has
submodules.

The function @code{vc-extras-get-github-remote} constructs the HTTPS GitHub
remote URL for a repository name and account.

The function @code{vc-extras-get-account-of-name} determines which GitHub
account owns a repository by querying @samp{gh repo list} for each profile.

The function @code{vc-extras-get-account-prop} retrieves a property (such as
@code{:dir}) for a given account from @code{vc-extras-profiles}.

The function @code{vc-extras-get-repo-dir} constructs the local path for a
repository, optionally pointing to the @samp{.git} or split @samp{.git}
directory.

The function @code{vc-extras-resolve-repo-dir} looks up a repository's local
directory from a candidates alist or constructs it from the account.

The function @code{vc-extras-list-local-candidates} returns an alist of
@samp{(NAME . DIR)} pairs for all local Git repositories found in the profile
directories.

@node GitHub CLI operations
@section GitHub CLI operations

@findex vc-extras-gh-create-repo
@findex vc-extras-ensure-gh-exists
@findex vc-extras-gh-list-repos
@findex vc-extras-gh-list-repos-in-account
@findex vc-extras-gh-list-repos-in-all-accounts
The function @code{vc-extras-gh-create-repo} executes the @samp{gh repo create}
command with the given name, account, description, and visibility.

The function @code{vc-extras-ensure-gh-exists} signals an error if @samp{gh} is
not installed.

The function @code{vc-extras-gh-list-repos} lists repositories for a
specific account or all accounts.  It delegates to
@code{vc-extras-gh-list-repos-in-account} and
@code{vc-extras-gh-list-repos-in-all-accounts}.

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
